articles/virtual-machines/workloads/hpc/hb-hc-known-issues.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting known issues with HPC and GPU VMs - Azure Virtual Machines | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn about troubleshooting known issues with HPC and GPU VM sizes in Azure. 
author: vermagit
ms.service: virtual-machines
ms.subservice: hpc
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/12/2021
ms.author: amverma
ms.reviewer: cynthn

---

# Known issues with H-series and N-series VMs

This article provides the most common issues and solutions when using the [H-series](../../sizes-hpc.md) and [N-series](../../sizes-gpu.md) HPC and GPU VMs.

## Known Issues on HBv3
- InfiniBand is currently supported only on the 120-core VM (Standard_HB120rs_v3). Support on other VMs sizes will be enabled soon.
- Azure Accelerated Networking is not supported on HBv3-series in all regions. This feature will be enabled soon.

## Accelerated Networking on HB, HC, HBv2, and NDv2

[Azure Accelerated Networking](https://azure.microsoft.com/blog/maximize-your-vm-s-performance-with-accelerated-networking-now-generally-available-for-both-windows-and-linux/) is now available on the RDMA and InfiniBand capable and SR-IOV enabled VM sizes [HB](../../hb-series.md), [HC](../../hc-series.md), [HBv2](../../hbv2-series.md), and [NDv2](../../ndv2-series.md). This capability now allows enhanced throughout (up to 30 Gbps) and latencies over the Azure Ethernet network. Though this is separate from the RDMA capabilities over the InfiniBand network, some platform changes for this capability may impact behavior of certain MPI implementations when running jobs over InfiniBand. Specifically the InfiniBand interface on some VMs may have a slightly different name (mlx5_1 as opposed to earlier mlx5_0) and this may require tweaking of the MPI command lines especially when using the UCX interface (commonly with OpenMPI and HPC-X).
More details on this are available on this [blog article](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/accelerated-networking-on-hb-hc-and-hbv2/ba-p/2067965) with instructions on how to address any observed issues.

## InfiniBand driver installation on N-series VMs

NC24r_v3 and ND40r_v2 are SR-IOV enabled while NC24r and NC24r_v2 are not SR-IOV enabled. Some details on the bifurcation [here](../../sizes-hpc.md#rdma-capable-instances).
InfiniBand (IB) can be configured on the SR-IOV enabled VM sizes with the OFED drivers while the non-SR-IOV VM sizes require ND drivers. This IB support is available appropriately on [CentOS-HPC VMIs](configure.md). For Ubuntu, see the [instruction here](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/configuring-infiniband-for-ubuntu-hpc-and-gpu-vms/ba-p/1221351) for installing both the OFED and ND drivers as described in the [docs](enable-infiniband.md#vm-images-with-infiniband-drivers).

## Duplicate MAC with cloud-init with Ubuntu on H-series and N-series VMs

There is a known issue with cloud-init on Ubuntu VM images as it tries to bring up the IB interface. This can happen either on VM reboot or when trying to create a VM image after generalization. The VM boot logs may show an error like so: “Starting Network Service...RuntimeError: duplicate mac found! both 'eth1' and 'ib0' have mac”.

This 'duplicate MAC with cloud-init on Ubuntu" is a known issue. The workaround is:
1) Deploy the (Ubuntu 18.04) marketplace VM image
2) Install the necessary software packages to enable IB ([instruction here](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/configuring-infiniband-for-ubuntu-hpc-and-gpu-vms/ba-p/1221351))
3) Edit waagent.conf to change EnableRDMA=y
4) Disable networking in cloud-init
    ```console
    echo network: {config: disabled} | sudo tee /etc/cloud/cloud.cfg.d/99-disable-network-config.cfg
    ```
5) Edit netplan's networking configuration file generated by cloud-init to remove the MAC
    ```console
    sudo bash -c "cat > /etc/netplan/50-cloud-init.yaml" <<'EOF'
    network:
      ethernets:
        eth0:
          dhcp4: true
      version: 2
    EOF
    ```

## DRAM on HB-series

HB-series VMs can only expose 228 GB of RAM to guest VMs at this time. Similarly, 458 GB on HBv2 and 448 GB on HBv3 VMs. This is due to a known limitation of Azure hypervisor to prevent pages from being assigned to the local DRAM of AMD CCX’s (NUMA domains) reserved for the guest VM.

## qp0 Access Restriction

To prevent low-level hardware access that can result in security vulnerabilities, Queue Pair 0 is not accessible to guest VMs. This should only affect actions typically associated with administration of the ConnectX-5 NIC, and running some InfiniBand diagnostics like ibdiagnet, but not end-user applications themselves.

## GSS Proxy

GSS Proxy has a known bug in CentOS/RHEL 7.5 that can manifest as a significant performance and responsiveness penalty when used with NFS. This can be mitigated with:

```console
sed -i 's/GSS_USE_PROXY="yes"/GSS_USE_PROXY="no"/g' /etc/sysconfig/nfs
```

## Cache Cleaning

On HPC systems, it is often useful to clean up the memory after a job has finished before the next user is assigned the same node. After running applications in Linux you may find that your available memory reduces while your buffer memory increases, despite not running any applications.

![Screenshot of command prompt before cleaning](./media/known-issues/cache-cleaning-1.png)

Using `numactl -H` will show which NUMAnode(s) the memory is buffered with (possibly all). In Linux, users can clean the caches in three ways to return buffered or cached memory to ‘free’. You need to be root or have sudo permissions.

```console
echo 1 > /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches [frees page-cache]
echo 2 > /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches [frees slab objects e.g. dentries, inodes]
echo 3 > /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches [cleans page-cache and slab objects]
```

![Screenshot of command prompt after cleaning](./media/known-issues/cache-cleaning-2.png)

## Kernel warnings

You may ignore the following kernel warning messages when booting an HB-series VM under Linux. This is due to a known limitation of the Azure hypervisor that will be addressed over time.

```console
[  0.004000] WARNING: CPU: 4 PID: 0 at arch/x86/kernel/smpboot.c:376 topology_sane.isra.3+0x80/0x90
[  0.004000] sched: CPU #4's llc-sibling CPU #0 is not on the same node! [node: 1 != 0]. Ignoring dependency.
[  0.004000] Modules linked in:
[  0.004000] CPU: 4 PID: 0 Comm: swapper/4 Not tainted 3.10.0-957.el7.x86_64 #1
[  0.004000] Hardware name: Microsoft Corporation Virtual Machine/Virtual Machine, BIOS 090007 05/18/2018
[  0.004000] Call Trace:
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb8361dc1>] dump_stack+0x19/0x1b
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c97648>] __warn+0xd8/0x100
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c976cf>] warn_slowpath_fmt+0x5f/0x80
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c02b34>] ? calibrate_delay+0x3e4/0x8b0
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c574c0>] topology_sane.isra.3+0x80/0x90
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c57782>] set_cpu_sibling_map+0x172/0x5b0
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c57ce1>] start_secondary+0x121/0x270
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c000d5>] start_cpu+0x5/0x14
[  0.004000] ---[ end trace 73fc0e0825d4ca1f ]---
```


## Next steps

- Review the [HB-series overview](hb-series-overview.md) and [HC-series overview](hc-series-overview.md) to learn about optimally configuring workloads for performance and scalability.
- Read about the latest announcements, HPC workload examples, and performance results at the [Azure Compute Tech Community Blogs](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/bg-p/AzureCompute).
- For a higher-level architectural view of running HPC workloads, see [High Performance Computing (HPC) on Azure](/azure/architecture/topics/high-performance-computing/).

Commit message:

Major update of HPC workload docs

articles/virtual-machines/workloads/hpc/hb-hc-known-issues.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting known issues with HPC and GPU VMs - Azure Virtual Machines | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn about troubleshooting known issues with HPC and GPU VM sizes in Azure. 
author: vermagit
ms.service: virtual-machines
ms.subservice: hpc
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/18/2021
ms.author: amverma
ms.reviewer: cynthn

---

# Known issues with H-series and N-series VMs

This article attempts to list recent common issues and their solutions when using the [H-series](../../sizes-hpc.md) and [N-series](../../sizes-gpu.md) HPC and GPU VMs.

## MOFED installation on Ubuntu
On Ubuntu-18.04, the kernel version 5.4.0-1041-azure is incompatible with the MOFED versions 5.2-2 and 5.2-1.0.4.0. We recommend rolling back to kernel version 5.4.0-1040-azure or using a Marketplace image with older kernel, and not updating the kernel. This issue is expected to be resolved with a newer MOFED (TBD).

## Known Issues on HBv3
- InfiniBand is currently supported only on the 120-core VM (Standard_HB120rs_v3). Support on other VMs sizes will be enabled soon.
- Azure Accelerated Networking is not supported on HBv3-series in all regions. This feature will be enabled soon.

## Accelerated Networking on HB, HC, HBv2, and NDv2

[Azure Accelerated Networking](https://azure.microsoft.com/blog/maximize-your-vm-s-performance-with-accelerated-networking-now-generally-available-for-both-windows-and-linux/) is now available on the RDMA and InfiniBand capable and SR-IOV enabled VM sizes [HB](../../hb-series.md), [HC](../../hc-series.md), [HBv2](../../hbv2-series.md), and [NDv2](../../ndv2-series.md). This capability now allows enhanced throughout (up to 30 Gbps) and latencies over the Azure Ethernet network. Though this is separate from the RDMA capabilities over the InfiniBand network, some platform changes for this capability may impact behavior of certain MPI implementations when running jobs over InfiniBand. Specifically the InfiniBand interface on some VMs may have a slightly different name (mlx5_1 as opposed to earlier mlx5_0) and this may require tweaking of the MPI command lines especially when using the UCX interface (commonly with OpenMPI and HPC-X). The simplest solution currently may be to use the latest HPC-X on the CentOS-HPC VM images or disable Accelerated Networking if not required.
More details on this are available on this [TechCommunity article](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/accelerated-networking-on-hb-hc-and-hbv2/ba-p/2067965) with instructions on how to address any observed issues.

## InfiniBand driver installation on non-SR-IOV VMs

Currently H16r, H16mr and NC24r are not SR-IOV enabled. Some details on the InfiniBand stack bifurcation are [here](../../sizes-hpc.md#rdma-capable-instances).
InfiniBand can be configured on the SR-IOV enabled VM sizes with the OFED drivers while the non-SR-IOV VM sizes require ND drivers. This IB support is available appropriately for [CentOS, RHEL, and Ubuntu](configure.md).

## Duplicate MAC with cloud-init with Ubuntu on H-series and N-series VMs

There is a known issue with cloud-init on Ubuntu VM images as it tries to bring up the IB interface. This can happen either on VM reboot or when trying to create a VM image after generalization. The VM boot logs may show an error like so:
```console
“Starting Network Service...RuntimeError: duplicate mac found! both 'eth1' and 'ib0' have mac”.
```

This 'duplicate MAC with cloud-init on Ubuntu" is a known issue. This will be resolved in newer kernels. IF the issue is encountered, the workaround is:
1) Deploy the (Ubuntu 18.04) marketplace VM image
2) Install the necessary software packages to enable IB ([instruction here](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/configuring-infiniband-for-ubuntu-hpc-and-gpu-vms/ba-p/1221351))
3) Edit waagent.conf to change EnableRDMA=y
4) Disable networking in cloud-init
    ```console
    echo network: {config: disabled} | sudo tee /etc/cloud/cloud.cfg.d/99-disable-network-config.cfg
    ```
5) Edit netplan's networking configuration file generated by cloud-init to remove the MAC
    ```console
    sudo bash -c "cat > /etc/netplan/50-cloud-init.yaml" <<'EOF'
    network:
      ethernets:
        eth0:
          dhcp4: true
      version: 2
    EOF
    ```

## qp0 Access Restriction

To prevent low-level hardware access that can result in security vulnerabilities, Queue Pair 0 is not accessible to guest VMs. This should only affect actions typically associated with administration of the ConnectX-5 NIC, and running some InfiniBand diagnostics like ibdiagnet, but not end-user applications themselves.

## DRAM on HB-series VMs

HB-series VMs can only expose 228 GB of RAM to guest VMs at this time. Similarly, 458 GB on HBv2 and 448 GB on HBv3 VMs. This is due to a known limitation of Azure hypervisor to prevent pages from being assigned to the local DRAM of AMD CCX’s (NUMA domains) reserved for the guest VM.

## GSS Proxy

GSS Proxy has a known bug in CentOS/RHEL 7.5 that can manifest as a significant performance and responsiveness penalty when used with NFS. This can be mitigated with:

```console
sed -i 's/GSS_USE_PROXY="yes"/GSS_USE_PROXY="no"/g' /etc/sysconfig/nfs
```

## Cache Cleaning

On HPC systems, it is often useful to clean up the memory after a job has finished before the next user is assigned the same node. After running applications in Linux you may find that your available memory reduces while your buffer memory increases, despite not running any applications.

![Screenshot of command prompt before cleaning](./media/known-issues/cache-cleaning-1.png)

Using `numactl -H` will show which NUMAnode(s) the memory is buffered with (possibly all). In Linux, users can clean the caches in three ways to return buffered or cached memory to ‘free’. You need to be root or have sudo permissions.

```console
echo 1 > /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches [frees page-cache]
echo 2 > /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches [frees slab objects e.g. dentries, inodes]
echo 3 > /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches [cleans page-cache and slab objects]
```

![Screenshot of command prompt after cleaning](./media/known-issues/cache-cleaning-2.png)

## Kernel warnings

You may ignore the following kernel warning messages when booting an HB-series VM under Linux. This is due to a known limitation of the Azure hypervisor that will be addressed over time.

```console
[  0.004000] WARNING: CPU: 4 PID: 0 at arch/x86/kernel/smpboot.c:376 topology_sane.isra.3+0x80/0x90
[  0.004000] sched: CPU #4's llc-sibling CPU #0 is not on the same node! [node: 1 != 0]. Ignoring dependency.
[  0.004000] Modules linked in:
[  0.004000] CPU: 4 PID: 0 Comm: swapper/4 Not tainted 3.10.0-957.el7.x86_64 #1
[  0.004000] Hardware name: Microsoft Corporation Virtual Machine/Virtual Machine, BIOS 090007 05/18/2018
[  0.004000] Call Trace:
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb8361dc1>] dump_stack+0x19/0x1b
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c97648>] __warn+0xd8/0x100
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c976cf>] warn_slowpath_fmt+0x5f/0x80
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c02b34>] ? calibrate_delay+0x3e4/0x8b0
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c574c0>] topology_sane.isra.3+0x80/0x90
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c57782>] set_cpu_sibling_map+0x172/0x5b0
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c57ce1>] start_secondary+0x121/0x270
[  0.004000] [<ffffffffb7c000d5>] start_cpu+0x5/0x14
[  0.004000] ---[ end trace 73fc0e0825d4ca1f ]---
```


## Next steps

- Review the [HB-series overview](hb-series-overview.md) and [HC-series overview](hc-series-overview.md) to learn about optimally configuring workloads for performance and scalability.
- Read about the latest announcements, HPC workload examples, and performance results at the [Azure Compute Tech Community Blogs](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/bg-p/AzureCompute).
- For a higher-level architectural view of running HPC workloads, see [High Performance Computing (HPC) on Azure](/azure/architecture/topics/high-performance-computing/).
