---
title:  "Import from Azure SQL Database"
titleSuffix: Azure Machine Learning service
description: Learn how to use the Import Data module in Azure Machine Learning visual interface, to get data from an Azure SQL Database.
services: machine-learning
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.subservice: core
ms.topic: reference

author: likebupt
ms.author: keli19
ms.date: 09/09/2019
---
# Import from Azure SQL Database

This article describes how to use the [Import Data](import-data.md) module in Azure Machine Learning visual interface, to get data from an Azure SQL Database.  

To import data from a database, you must specify both the server name and database name, and a SQL statement that defines the table, view, or query.  

In general, storing data in Azure databases is more expensive than using tables or blobs in Azure. There may also be limits on the amount of data that you can store in a database, depending on your subscription type. However, there are no transaction fees against SQL Azure Database, so that option is ideal for fast access to smaller amounts of frequently used information, such as data lookup tables or data dictionaries.

Storing data in an Azure database is also preferred if you need to be able to filter data before reading it, or if you want to save predictions or metrics back to the database for reporting.

## How to import data from Azure SQL Database

1. Add the [Import Data](import-data.md) module to your pipeline. You can find this module in visual interface, in the Data Input and Output category.

1. For **Data source**, select **Azure SQL Database**.

1. Set the following options specific to Azure SQL Database.

    **Database server name**: Type the server name that is generated by Azure. Typically it has the form `<generated_identifier>.database.windows.net`.

    **Database name**: Type the name of an existing database on the server you specified.

    **Server user account name**: Type the user name of an account that has access permissions for the database.

    **Server user account password**: Provide the password for the specified user account.

    **Database query**: Type or paste a SQL statement that describes the data you want to read. Always validate the SQL statement and verify the query results beforehand, using a tool such as Visual Studio Server Explorer or SQL Server Data Tools.

1. If the dataset that you read into Azure Machine Learning is not expected to change between runs of the pipeline, select the **Use cached results** option.

    When it is selected, if there are no other changes to module parameters, the pipeline loads the data the first time the module is run, and thereafter uses a cached version of the dataset.

    If you want to reload the dataset on each iteration of the pipeline, deselect this option. The dataset is reloaded from the source each time any parameters are changed in [Import Data](import-data.md).

1. Run the pipeline.

    As [Import Data](import-data.md) loads the data into visual interface, some implicit type conversion might also be performed, depending on the data types used in the source database.

## Results

When import is complete, click the output dataset and select **Visualize** to see if the data was imported successfully.

Optionally, you can change the dataset and its metadata using the tools in visual interface:

- Use [Edit Metadata](edit-metadata.md) to change column names, convert a column to a different data type, or to indicate which columns are labels or features.

- Use [Select Columns in Dataset](select-columns-in-dataset.md) to select a subset of columns.

- Use [Partition and Sample](partition-and-sample.md) to separate the dataset by criteria, or get the top n rows.

## Next steps

See the [set of modules available](module-reference.md) to Azure Machine Learning service. 
