articles/backup/quick-backup-vm-portal.md, before:

---
title: Azure Quick Start - Back up a VM with the Azure portal | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to back up your virtual machines with the Azure portal
services: virtual-machines-windows, azure-backup
documentationcenter: virtual-machines
author: iainfoulds
manager: jeconnoc
editor: 
tags: azure-resource-manager, virtual-machine-backup

ms.assetid: 
ms.service: virtual-machines-windows, azure-backup
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: hero-article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: vm-windows
ms.workload: infrastructure
ms.date: 09/18/2017
ms.author: iainfou
ms.custom: mvc
---

# Back up a virtual machine in Azure
Azure backups can be created through the Azure portal. This method provides a browser-based user interface for creating and configuring Azire backups and all related resources. You can protect your data by taking backups at regular intervals. Azure Backup creates recovery points that are stored in geo-redundant recovery vaults. This article details how to back up a virtual machine (VM) with the Azure PowerShell module. You can also perform these steps with the [Azure CLI](quick-backup-vm-cli.md) or [Azure PowerShell](quick-backup-vm-powershell.md).

This quick start enables backup on an existing Azure VM. If you need to create a VM, you can [create a VM with the Azure portal](../virtual-machines/windows/quick-create-portal.md).


## Log in to Azure and select a VM
Create a simple scheduled daily backup to a Recovery Services Vault. 

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
2. In the menu on the left, select **Virtual machines**. 
3. From the list, choose a VM to back up.
4. In the **Settings** section, choose **Backup**. The **Enable backup** window opens.


## Create a recovery services vault
A Recovery Services vault is a logical container that stores the backup data for each protected resource, such as Azure VMs. When the backup job for a protected resource runs, it creates a recovery point inside the Recovery Services vault. These recovery points are used to then restore data to a given point in time as needed.

1. Select **Create new** and provide a name for the new vault, such as **myRecoveryServicesVault**.
2. If not already selected, choose 'Use existing', then select the resource group of your VM from the drop-down menu.

By default, the vault is set for Geo-Redundant storage. To further protect your data, this storage redundancy level ensures that your backup data is replicated to a secondary Azure region that is hundreds of miles away from the primary region.


## Enable backup for an Azure VM
You create and use policies to define when a backup job runs and how long the recovery points are stored. The default protection policy runs a backup job each day at midnight and retains recovery points for 30 days. You can use these default policy values to quickly protect your VM. 

1. To accept the default backup policy values, select **Enable Backup**.


## Start a backup job
You can start a backup now rather than wait for the default policy to run the job at midnight. This first backup job creates a full recovery point. Each backup job after this initial backup creates incremental recovery points. Incremental recovery points are storage and time-efficient, as they only transfer changes made since the last backup.

1. On the **Backup** window for your VM, select **Backup now**.
2. To accept the default back retention policy of 30 days, leave the **Retain Backup Till** date. To start the job, select **Backup**.


## Monitor a backup job
In the **Backup** window for your VM, the status of the backup and number of completed restore points are shown.

![Recovery points](./media/tutorial-backup-vms/backup-complete.png)


## Clean up deployment
When no longer needed, you can disable protection on the VM, remove the restore points and Recovery Services vault, then delete the resource group and associated VM resources:


## Next steps
In this quick start, you created a Recovery Services vault, enabled protection on a VM, and created the initial recovery point. To learn more about Azure Backup and Recovery Services, continue to the tutorials.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Restore VMs using templates](./tutorial-backup-azure-vm.md)

Commit message:

Updating portal steps, adding screenshots

articles/backup/quick-backup-vm-portal.md, after:

---
title: Azure Quick Start - Back up a VM with the Azure portal | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to back up your virtual machines with the Azure portal
services: virtual-machines-windows, azure-backup
documentationcenter: virtual-machines
author: iainfoulds
manager: jeconnoc
editor: 
tags: azure-resource-manager, virtual-machine-backup

ms.assetid: 
ms.service: virtual-machines-windows, azure-backup
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: hero-article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: vm-windows
ms.workload: infrastructure
ms.date: 09/18/2017
ms.author: iainfou
ms.custom: mvc
---

# Back up a virtual machine in Azure
Azure backups can be created through the Azure portal. This method provides a browser-based user interface for creating and configuring Azire backups and all related resources. You can protect your data by taking backups at regular intervals. Azure Backup creates recovery points that are stored in geo-redundant recovery vaults. This article details how to back up a virtual machine (VM) with the Azure PowerShell module. You can also perform these steps with the [Azure CLI](quick-backup-vm-cli.md) or [Azure PowerShell](quick-backup-vm-powershell.md).

This quick start enables backup on an existing Azure VM. If you need to create a VM, you can [create a VM with the Azure portal](../virtual-machines/windows/quick-create-portal.md).


## Log in to Azure and select a VM
Create a simple scheduled daily backup to a Recovery Services Vault. 

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
2. In the menu on the left, select **Virtual machines**. 
3. From the list, choose a VM to back up. If you used the sample VM quick start commands, the VM is named *myVM* in the *myResourceGroup* resource group.
4. In the **Settings** section, choose **Backup**. The **Enable backup** window opens.


## Create a recovery services vault
A Recovery Services vault is a logical container that stores the backup data for each protected resource, such as Azure VMs. When the backup job for a protected resource runs, it creates a recovery point inside the Recovery Services vault. These recovery points are used to then restore data to a given point in time as needed.

1. Select **Create new** and provide a name for the new vault, such as **myRecoveryServicesVault**.
2. If not already selected, choose 'Use existing', then select the resource group of your VM from the drop-down menu.

![Enable VM backup in the Azure portal](./media/quick-backup-vm-portal/enable-backup.png)

By default, the vault is set for Geo-Redundant storage. To further protect your data, this storage redundancy level ensures that your backup data is replicated to a secondary Azure region that is hundreds of miles away from the primary region.


## Enable backup for an Azure VM
You create and use policies to define when a backup job runs and how long the recovery points are stored. The default protection policy runs a backup job each day at midnight and retains recovery points for 30 days. You can use these default policy values to quickly protect your VM. 

1. To accept the default backup policy values, select **Enable Backup**.


## Start a backup job
You can start a backup now rather than wait for the default policy to run the job at midnight. This first backup job creates a full recovery point. Each backup job after this initial backup creates incremental recovery points. Incremental recovery points are storage and time-efficient, as they only transfer changes made since the last backup.

1. On the **Backup** window for your VM, select **Backup now**.

    ![Perform immediate VM backup in the Azure portal](./media/quick-backup-vm-portal/backup-now.png)

2. To accept the default back retention policy of 30 days, leave the **Retain Backup Till** date. To start the job, select **Backup**.


## Monitor a backup job
In the **Backup** window for your VM, the status of the backup and number of completed restore points are shown. Once the VM backup job is complete, information on the **Last backup time**, **Latest restore point**, and **Oldest restore point** is shown.


## Clean up deployment
If you are going to continue on to a Backup tutorial that explains how to restore data for your VM, go to [Next steps](#next-steps). When no longer needed, you can disable protection on the VM, remove the restore points and Recovery Services vault, then delete the resource group and associated VM resources:

1. On the **Backup** window for your VM, select **Backup now**.

2. Select **...More** to show additional options, then choose **Stop backup**.

    ![Stop VM backup from the Azure portal](./media/quick-backup-vm-portal/stop-backup.png)

3. Select **Delete Backup Data** from the drop-down menu.

4. In the **Type the name of the Backup item** dialog, enter your VM name, such as *myVM*. Select **Stop Backup**

Once the VM backup has been stopped and recovery points removed, delete the resource group:

5. In the menu on the left, select **Resource groups**. 
6. From the list, choose your resource group. If you used the sample VM quick start commands, the resource group is named *myResourceGroup*.
7. Select **Delete resource group**. To confirm, enter the resource group name, then select **Delete**.

    ![Delete the resource group from the Azure portal](./media/quick-backup-vm-portal/delete-resource-group.png)


## Next steps
In this quick start, you created a Recovery Services vault, enabled protection on a VM, and created the initial recovery point. To learn more about Azure Backup and Recovery Services, continue to the tutorials.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Restore VMs using templates](./tutorial-backup-azure-vm.md)
