---
title: Monitor Azure Storage Tasks
titleSuffix: Azure Storage Tasks
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure Storage Tasks 
services: storage
author: normesta

ms.service: storage-tasks
ms.custom: horz-monitor
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 05/10/2023
ms.author: normesta

---

# Monitor Azure Storage Tasks

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation.

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Storage Tasks. Azure Storage Tasks uses [Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/overview). If you are unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource).

## Monitoring overview page in Azure portal

The **Overview** page in the Azure portal for each storage task includes *[provide a description of the data in the Overview page.]*.

## Monitoring data

Azure Storage Tasks collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource#monitoring-data-from-Azure-resources).

See [Monitoring Azure Storage Tasks data reference](storage-tasks-monitor-data-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs metrics created by Azure Storage Tasks.

## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for Azure Storage Tasks are listed in [Azure Storage Tasks monitoring data reference](storage-tasks-monitor-data-reference.md#resource-logs).

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for Azure Storage Tasks with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started) for details on using this tool.

For a list of the platform metrics collected for Azure Storage Tasks, see [Monitoring Azure Storage Tasks metrics](storage-tasks-monitor-data-reference.md#metrics)  

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported).

## Analyzing logs

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

The [Activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log) is a type of platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.  

## Alerts

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric-overview), [logs](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-unified-log), and the [activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/activity-log-alerts). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks.

The following table lists common and recommended alert rules for Azure Storage Tasks.

| Alert type | Condition | Description  |
|:---|:---|:---|
| | | |
| | | |

## Next steps

- See [Monitoring Azure Storage Tasks data reference](storage-tasks-monitor-data-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure Storage Tasks.

- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource) for details on monitoring Azure resources.