---
title: Cognitive Services in Azure Synapse Analytics 
description: Enrich your data with artificial intelligence (AI) in Azure Synapse Analytics using pretrained models from Azure Cognitive Services.

services: synapse-analytics 
ms.service: synapse-analytics 
ms.subservice: machine-learning
ms.topic: overview 
ms.reviewer: jrasnick, garye, negust, ruxu

ms.date: 06/30/2021
author: garyericson
ms.author: garye
---

# Cognitive Services in Azure Synapse Analytics

Using pretrained models from Azure Cognitive Services, you can enrich your data with artificial intelligence (AI) in Azure Synapse Analytics.

[Azure Cognitive Services](../../cognitive-services/what-are-cognitive-services.md) are cloud-based services that add cognitive intelligence to your data even if you don't have AI or data science skills. There are a few ways you can use these services with your data in Synapse Analytics:

- The Cognitive Services wizard in Synapse Analytics generates PySpark code in a Synapse notebook that connects to a cognitive service using data in a Spark table. Then, using pretrained machine learning models, the service does the work for you to add AI to your data. Check out [Sentiment analysis wizard](tutorial-cognitive-services-sentiment.md) and [Anomaly detection wizard](tutorial-cognitive-services-anomaly.md) for more details.

- Microsoft Machine Learning for Apache Spark ([MMLSpark](https://github.com/Azure/mmlspark)) allows you to build powerful and highly scalable predictive and analytical models from various Spark data sources. Synapse Spark provide built-in MMLSpark libraries including [Cognitive Services on Spark](https://github.com/microsoft/SynapseML/blob/master/docs/cogsvc.md).

    - The tutorial [Form recognizer with Applied AI Service](tutorial-form-recognizer-use-mmlspark.md) demonstrates how to use MMLSpark to access [Azure Form Recognizer](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/form-recognizer/#overview) on Synapse Spark.
    - The tutorial [Build machine learning applications using Microsoft Machine Learning for Apache Spark](tutorial-build-applications-use-mmlspark.md) demonstrates how to call a number of cognitive services using Microsoft Machine Learning for Apache Spark (MMLSpark).

- Starting from the PySpark code generated by the wizard, or the example MMLSpark code provided in the tutorial, you can write your own code to use other cognitive services with your data. See [What are Azure Cognitive Services?](../../cognitive-services/what-are-cognitive-services.md) for more information about available services.

## Get started

The tutorial, [Pre-requisites for using Cognitive Services in Azure Synapse](tutorial-configure-cognitive-services-synapse.md), walks you through a couple steps you need to perform before using Cognitive Services in Synapse Analytics.

## Tutorials

The following tutorials provide complete examples of using Cognitive Services in Synapse Analytics.

- [Sentiment analysis with Cognitive Services](tutorial-cognitive-services-sentiment.md) - Using an example data set of customer comments, you build a Spark table with a column that indicates the sentiment of the comments in each row.

- [Anomaly detection with Cognitive Services](tutorial-cognitive-services-anomaly.md) - Using an example data set of time series data, you build a Spark table with a column that indicates whether the data in each row is an anomaly.

- [Build machine learning applications using Microsoft Machine Learning for Apache Spark](tutorial-build-applications-use-mmlspark.md) - This tutorial demonstrates how to use MMLSpark to access several models from Cognitive Services.

- [Form recognizer with Applied AI Service](tutorial-form-recognizer-use-mmlspark.md) demonstrates how to use MMLSpark to access [Azure Form Recognizer](https://azure.microsoft.com//services/form-recognizer/#overview) on Synapse Spark.

## Next steps

- [Machine Learning capabilities in Azure Synapse Analytics](what-is-machine-learning.md)
- [What are Cognitive Services?](../../cognitive-services/what-are-cognitive-services.md)
- [Use a sample notebook from the Synapse Analytics gallery](quickstart-gallery-sample-notebook.md)