---
title: Microsoft Defender for Storage - the benefits and features
titleSuffix: Microsoft Defender for Cloud
description: Learn about the benefits and features of Microsoft Defender for Storage.
ms.date: 03/23/2023
author: bmansheim
ms.author: benmansheim
ms.topic: overview
---

# Overview of Microsoft Defender for Storage

**Microsoft Defender for Storage** is an Azure-native layer of security intelligence that detects potential threats to your storage accounts.  
It helps prevent the three major impacts on your data and workload: malicious file uploads, sensitive data exfiltration, and data corruption.

> [!Note]
> This article is about the new Defender for Storage plan that was launched on March 28, 2023.  It includes new features like Malware Scanning and Sensitive Data Threat Detection. This plan also provides a more predictable pricing structure for better control over coverage and costs. Additionally, all new Defender features will only be added to the new plan.  Migrating to the new plan is a simple process, read here about how to migrate from the classic plan.

Microsoft Defender for Storage provides comprehensive security by analyzing the data plane and control plane telemetry generated by [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/blobs/), [Azure Files](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/storage/files/), and [Azure Data Lake Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/storage/data-lake-storage) services. It uses advanced threat detection capabilities powered by [Microsoft Threat Intelligence](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2128684), Microsoft Defender Antivirus, and [Sensitive Data Discovery](defender-for-storage-data-sensitivity.md) to help you discover and mitigate potential threats. 

Defender for Storage includes:
- Activity Monitoring
- Sensitive data threat detection (preview feature, new plan only)
- Malware Scanning (preview feature, new plan only)

:::image type="content" source="media/defender-for-storage-introduction/defender-for-storage-overview.gif" alt-text="Animated diagram showing how Defender for Storage protects against common threats to data.":::

## Getting started

With a simple agentless setup at scale, you can [enable Defender for Storage](../storage/common/azure-defender-storage-configure.md) at the subscription or resource levels through the portal or programmatically. When enabled at the subscription level, all existing and newly created storage accounts under that subscription will be automatically protected. You can also exclude specific storage accounts from protected subscriptions. 

> [!NOTE]
> If you already have the Defender for Storage (classic) enabled and want to access the new security features and pricing, you'll need to [migrate to the new pricing plan](defender-for-storage-classic-migrate.md).

## Availability

|Aspect|Details|
|----|:----|
|Release state:|General availability (GA)|
|Feature availability:|- Activity monitoring (security alerts) - General availability (GA)<br>- Malware Scanning – Preview<br>- Sensitive data threat detection (Sensitive Data Discovery) – Preview|
|Pricing:|- Defender for Storage: $10/storage accounts/month\*<br>- Malware Scanning (add-on): Free during public preview\*\*<br><br>Above pricing applies to commercial clouds. Visit the [pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/defender-for-cloud/) to learn more.<br><br>\* Storage accounts that exceed 73 million monthly transactions will be charged $0.1492 for every 1 million transactions that exceed the threshold.<br>\*\* In the future, Malware Scanning will be priced at $0.15/GB of data ingested. Billing for Malware Scanning is not enabled during public preview and advanced notice will be given before billing starts.|
| Supported storage types:|[Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/storage/blobs/) (Standard/Premium StorageV2, including Data Lake Gen2): Activity monitoring, Malware Scanning, Sensitive Data Discovery<br>Azure Files (over REST API and SMB): Activity monitoring |
|Required roles and permissions:|For Malware Scanning and sensitive data threat detection at subscription and storage account levels, you need Owner roles (subscription owner/storage account owner) or specific roles with corresponding data actions. To enable Activity Monitoring, you need 'Security Admin' permissions. Read more about the required permissions.|
|Clouds:|:::image type="icon" source="../defender-for-cloud/media/icons/yes-icon.png"::: Commercial clouds\*<br>:::image type="icon" source="../defender-for-cloud/media/icons/yes-icon.png"::: Azure Government (Only for activity monitoring)<br>:::image type="icon" source="../defender-for-cloud/media/icons/no-icon.png"::: Azure China 21Vianet<br>:::image type="icon" source="../defender-for-cloud/media/icons/no-icon.png"::: Connected AWS accounts|

\* Azure DNS Zone is not supported for Malware Scanning and sensitive data threat detection.

## What are the benefits of Microsoft Defender for Storage?

:::image type="content" source="media/defender-for-storage-introduction/defender-for-storage-benefits.png" alt-text="Diagram showing the benefits of using Defender for Storage to protect your data.":::

Defender for Storage provides the following:

- **Better protection against malware**: The Malware Scanning scans and detects in near real-time all file types, including archives of every uploaded blob, and provides fast and reliable results, helping you prevent your storage accounts from acting as an entry and distribution point for threats. Learn more about [Malware Scanning](defender-for-storage-malware-scan.md).

- **Improved threat detection and protection of sensitive data**: The sensitive data threat detection capability enables security professionals to efficiently prioritize and examine security alerts by considering the sensitivity of the data that could be at risk, leading to better detection and protection against potential threats. By quickly identifying and addressing the most significant risks, this capability lowers the likelihood of data breaches and enhances sensitive data protection by detecting exposure events and suspicious activities on resources containing sensitive data. Learn more about [sensitive data threat detection](defender-for-storage-data-sensitivity.md).

- **Detection of entities without identities**: Defender for Storage detects suspicious activities generated by entities without identities that access your data using misconfigured and overly permissive Shared Access Signatures (SAS tokens) that may have leaked or compromised so that you can improve the security hygiene and reduce the risk of unauthorized access. This capability is an expansion of the Activity Monitoring security alerts suite.

- **Coverage of the top cloud storage threats**: Powered by Microsoft Threat Intelligence, behavioral models, and machine learning models to detect unusual and suspicious activities. The Defender for Storage security alerts cover the top cloud storage threats, such as sensitive data exfiltration, data corruption, and malicious file uploads.

- **Comprehensive security without enabling logs**: When Microsoft Defender for Storage is enabled, it continuously analyzes both the data plane and control plane telemetry stream generated by Azure Blob Storage, Azure Files, and Azure Data Lake Storage services without the requirement of enabling diagnostic logs.

- **Frictionless enablement at scale**: Microsoft Defender for Storage is an agentless solution, easy to deploy, and enables security protection at scale using a native solution to Azure with just a single click.

## How does the service work?

### Activity monitoring 

Defender for Storage continuously analyzes data and control plane logs from protected storage accounts when enabled. There's no need to turn on resource logs for security benefits. Using Microsoft Threat Intelligence, it identifies suspicious signatures such as malicious IP addresses, Tor exit nodes, and potentially dangerous apps. It also builds data models and uses statistical and machine-learning methods to spot baseline activity anomalies, which may indicate malicious behavior. You'll receive security alerts for suspicious activities, but Defender for Storage ensures you won't get too many similar alerts. Activity monitoring won't affect performance, ingestion capacity, or access to your data.

:::image type="content" source="media/defender-for-storage-introduction/activity-monitoring.png" alt-text="Diagram showing how activity monitoring identifies threats to your data.":::

### Malware Scanning (powered by Microsoft Defender Antivirus)

Malware Scanning in Defender for Storage helps protect storage accounts from malicious content by performing a full malware scan on uploaded content in near real time, leveraging Microsoft Defender Antivirus capabilities. It is designed to help fulfill security and compliance requirements to handle untrusted content. Every file type is scanned, and scan results are returned for every file. The Malware Scanning capability is an agentless SaaS solution that allows simple setup at scale, with zero maintenance, and supports automating response at scale. 
This is a configurable feature in the new Defender for Storage plan that is priced per GB scanned.
Learn more about [Malware Scanning](defender-for-storage-malware-scan.md).

### Sensitive data threat detection (powered by Sensitive Data Discovery)

The ‘sensitive data threat detection’ capability enables security teams to efficiently prioritize and examine security alerts by considering the sensitivity of the data that could be at risk, leading to better detection and preventing data breaches. 
‘Sensitive data threat detection’ is powered by the “Sensitive Data Discovery” engine, an agentless engine that uses a smart sampling method to find resources with sensitive data.   
The service is integrated with Microsoft Purview's sensitive information types (SITs) and classification labels, allowing seamless inheritance of your organization's sensitivity settings.  

This is a configurable feature in the new Defender for Storage plan. You can choose to enable or disable it with no additional cost. 
For more details, visit [Sensitive data threat detection](defender-for-storage-data-sensitivity.md). 


## Pricing and cost controls 

### Per storage account pricing  

The new Microsoft Defender for Storage plan has predictable pricing based on the number of storage accounts you protect. With the option to enable at the subscription or resource level and exclude specific storage accounts from protected subscriptions, you have increased flexibility to manage your security coverage. The pricing plan simplifies the cost calculation process, allowing you to scale easily as your needs change. Additional charges may apply to storage accounts with high-volume transactions. 

### Malware Scanning - Billing per GB, monthly capping, and configuration 

Malware Scanning is charged on a per-gigabyte basis for scanned data. To ensure cost predictability, a monthly cap can be established for each storage account's scanned data volume, per-month basis. This cap can be set subscription-wide, affecting all storage accounts within the subscription, or applied to individual storage accounts. Under protected subscriptions, you can configure specific storage accounts with different limits. 

By default, the limit is set to 5,000GB per month per storage account. Once this threshold is exceeded, scanning will cease for the remaining blobs, with a 20GB confidence interval. For configuration details, refer to [configure Defender for Storage](../storage/common/azure-defender-storage-configure.md).

### Enablement at scale with granular controls 

Microsoft Defender for Storage enables you to secure your data at scale with granular controls. You can apply consistent security policies across all your storage accounts within a subscription or customize them for specific accounts to suit your business needs. You can also control your costs by choosing the level of protection you need for each resource. To get started, visit [enable Defender for Storage](../storage/common/azure-defender-storage-configure.md).


## Malware Scanning and hash reputation analysis  

**Malware Scanning** is a paid add-on feature to Defender for Storage, currently available for Azure Blob Storage. It leverages MDAV (Microsoft Defender Antivirus) to do a full malware scan, with high efficacy. It is significantly more comprehensive than only file hash reputation analysis.   
 
The Activity Monitoring feature in Defender for Storage includes blob/file hash reputation analysis. 

### Limitations of hash reputation analysis

- **Hash reputation isn't deep file inspection** - Microsoft Defender for Storage uses hash reputation analysis supported by [Microsoft Threat Intelligence](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2128684) to determine whether an uploaded file is suspicious. The threat protection tools don’t scan the uploaded files; rather they analyze the telemetry generated from the Blobs Storage and Files services. Defender for Storage then compares the hashes of newly uploaded files with hashes of known viruses, trojans, spyware, and ransomware.  

- **Hash reputation analysis isn't supported for all files protocols and operation types** - Some, but not all, of the telemetry logs contain the hash value of the related blob or file. In some cases, the telemetry doesn't contain a hash value. As a result, some operations can't be monitored for known malware uploads. Examples of such unsupported use cases include SMB file-shares and when a blob is created using [Put Block](/rest/api/storageservices/put-block) and [Put Block List](/rest/api/storageservices/put-block-list).

For blob storage, you can enable [Malware Scanning](defender-for-storage-malware-scan.md) to get fuller coverage and efficacy.  


## Common questions

### Is it possible to enable Defender for Storage on a resource level?

Yes, it's possible to enable Defender for Storage at the resource level and set up Malware Scanning and Sensitivity Scanning accordingly. Keep in mind that enabling it at the subscription level is the recommended approach, as it will automatically protect all new storage accounts.

### Can I exclude certain storage accounts from protection?

Yes, you can exclude storage accounts from protection.

### How long does it take for subscription-level enablement to take effect?

Enabling Defender for Storage at the subscription level may take up to 24 hours to be fully enabled across all storage accounts.

### Is there a difference in features between the new and Defender for Storage (classic)?

Yes, there is a difference in the capabilities of the two plans. New and future security capabilities will only be available in the new Defender for Storage plan. If you want to access these new capabilities, you'll need to enable the new plan.

### Will the Defender for Storage (classic) continue to be supported?

The Defender for Storage (classic) will still continue to be supported for three years after the release of the new Defender for Storage to general availability (GA).

### Can I switch back to the Defender for Storage (classic)?

Yes, using the REST API, you can return to using the Defender for Storage (classic).

### How can I calculate the cost of each plan?

To estimate the cost of Defender for Storage, we've provided a pricing estimation workbook and a PowerShell script that you can run in your environment.

## Next steps

In this article, you learned about Microsoft Defender for Storage.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Enable Defender for Storage](enable-enhanced-security.md)
