---
title: List of security threats and security alerts - Microsoft Defender for Cloud
description: Learn about the security threats and alerts Microsoft Defender for Storage provides to detect and respond to potential security risks.
ms.date: 03/16/2023
author: bmansheim
ms.author: benmansheim
ms.topic: how-to
---

# List of security threats and security alerts

Data security becomes a top priority as organizations shift data to cloud storage solutions like Azure Storage. This document outlines common security threats and risks associated with misconfigured settings and the security alerts Microsoft Defender for Storage provides to detect and respond to potential security threats.

## Security threats in cloud-based storage services

Azure Storage is a widely used cloud storage solution, and like any cloud-based service, it is susceptible to various security threats. Common security threats in Azure Storage include:

- Access token abuse and leakage
- Lateral movement from compromised workloads
- Compromised third-party partners with privileged permissions
- Credentials theft
- Reconnaissance with search engines
- Data collection by blob hunting
- Insider threats with existing permissions

These threats can result in malware uploads, data corruption, and sensitive data exfiltration, posing significant risks.

:::image type="content" source="media/defender-for-storage-threats-alerts/malware-risks.png" alt-text="Diagram showing common risks to data that can result from malware.":::

In addition to security threats, configuration errors may inadvertently expose sensitive resources. Some common misconfiguration issues include:

- Inadequate access controls and networking rules, leading to unintended data exposure on the internet
- Insufficient authentication mechanisms
- Lack of data encryption protocols for both data in transit and at rest

To minimize the risk of security breaches and configuration errors, security teams employ a combination of posture management tools and workload protection tools. These tools ensure that Azure Storage remains secure by providing visibility into early signs of breaches, helping prevent attacks, and maintaining secure configurations.

Microsoft security researchers have analyzed the attack surface of storage services. The potential security risks are described in the [threat matrix for cloud-based storage services](https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2021/04/08/threat-matrix-for-storage/), which are based on the [MITRE ATT&CK® framework](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/enterprise/), a knowledge base for the tactics and techniques employed in cyber-attacks.

## What kind of security alerts does Microsoft Defender for Storage provide?

> [!TIP]
> For a comprehensive list of all Defender for Storage alerts, see the [alerts reference guide](alerts-reference.md#alerts-azurestorage) page. This is useful for workload owners who want to know what threats can be detected and help SOC teams gain familiarity with detections before investigating them. Learn more about [Defender for Cloud security alerts and how to respond to them](managing-and-responding-alerts.md).

Security alerts are triggered in the following scenarios:

| Scenario  | Description  | Requirements  |
|:--- |:--- |:--- |
| Malicious content upload  | [Malware Scanning](defender-for-storage-malware-scan.md) scans every blob uploaded to your storage accounts. It detects ransomware, viruses, spyware, and other malware uploaded to the storage account, helping you prevent it from entering the organization and spreading. The classic malware hash analysis alert operates differently from Malware Scanning. It compares the uploaded blob/file hash with a list of known malicious hash signatures rather than analyzing the file contents for malware.  | Malware Scanning needs to be enabled, free during preview.<br>Supported only on Azure Blob (Standard general-purpose v2, Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 or premium block blobs) storage accounts. |
| Sensitive data exposure event  | Detection of access level change allowing unauthenticated public access to blob containers with sensitive data from the internet  | [Sensitive Data Threat Detection](defender-for-storage-data-sensitivity.md) needs to be enabled, no additional charge<br>Supported only on Azure Blob Storage storage accounts.  |
| Suspicious activities on resources with sensitive data  | Detection of suspicious activities occurring on blob containers containing sensitive data  | [Sensitive Data Threat Detection](defender-for-storage-data-sensitivity.md) needs to be enabled, no additional charge<br>Supported only on Azure Blob Storage storage accounts.  |
| Compromised, misconfigured and unusual authentication tokens  | Detection of compromised SAS tokens used for data plane authentication and operations, and detection of unusual SAS tokens that can be generated by a malicious actor  |  |
| Data and permissions inspection  | Detection of unusual exploration of the data and inspection of access permissions  |  |
| Data exfiltration  | Detection of unusual extraction of data from storage accounts  |  |
| Data deletion  | Detection of unusual deletions in storage accounts  |  |
| Blob-hunting attempts  | Detection of collection attempts by scanning and enumerating resources for publicly exposed storage resources.<br>Read more on [how to detect, investigate and prevent blob-hunting](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-defender-for-cloud/protect-your-storage-resources-against-blob-hunting/ba-p/3735238).  |  |
| Unusual access patterns  | Detection of unusual access to storage accounts from unusual locations, applications, and with unusual authentication  |  |
| Suspicious access signatures  | Detection of known suspicious IP addresses by Microsoft Threat Intelligence, known Tor exit nodes, and known suspicious applications  |  |
| Phishing campaigns  | Detection of phishing content hosted on storage accounts and identified as part of a phishing attack impacting Microsoft 365 users  |  |

Security alerts include details of the suspicious activity, relevant investigation steps, remediation actions, and security recommendations. Alerts can be exported to Microsoft Sentinel or any other third-party SIEM/XDR tool. Learn more about [how to stream alerts to a SIEM, SOAR, or IT Service Management solution](export-to-siem.md).

## Malware Scanning and Hash reputation analysis

Malware Scanning is a paid add-on feature to Defender for Storage, currently available for Azure Blob Storage. It leverages MDAV (Microsoft Defender Antivirus) to do a full malware scan, with high efficacy. It is significantly more comprehensive than only file hash reputation analysis.  


- **Hash reputation isn't deep file inspection** - Microsoft Defender for Storage uses hash reputation analysis supported by [Microsoft Threat Intelligence](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2128684) to determine whether an uploaded file is suspicious. The threat protection tools don’t scan the uploaded files; rather they analyze the telemetry generated from the Blobs Storage and Files services. Defender for Storage then compares the hashes of newly uploaded files with hashes of known viruses, trojans, spyware, and ransomware.
- **Hash reputation analysis isn't supported for all files protocols and operation types** - Some, but not all, of the telemetry logs contain the hash value of the related blob or file. In some cases, the telemetry doesn't contain a hash value. As a result, some operations can't be monitored for known malware uploads. Examples of such unsupported use cases include SMB file-shares and when a blob is created using [Put Block](/rest/api/storageservices/put-block) and [Put Block List](/rest/api/storageservices/put-block-list).

For blob storage, you can [enable Malware Scanning](defender-for-storage-malware-scan.md) to get full coverage and efficacy.

## Next steps

In this article, you learned about Microsoft Defender for Storage.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Enable Defender for Storage](enable-enhanced-security.md)
