---
# Mandatory fields.
title: Manage endpoints and routes (APIs and CLI)
titleSuffix: Azure Digital Twins
description: See how to set up and manage endpoints and event routes for Azure Digital Twins data.
author: alexkarcher-msft
ms.author: alkarche # Microsoft employees only
ms.date: 11/18/2020
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: digital-twins

# Optional fields. Don't forget to remove # if you need a field.
# ms.custom: can-be-multiple-comma-separated
# ms.reviewer: MSFT-alias-of-reviewer
# manager: MSFT-alias-of-manager-or-PM-counterpart
---

# Manage endpoints and routes in Azure Digital Twins (APIs and CLI)

[!INCLUDE [digital-twins-route-selector.md](../../includes/digital-twins-route-selector.md)]

In Azure Digital Twins, you can route [event notifications](how-to-interpret-event-data.md) to downstream services or connected compute resources. This is done by first setting up **endpoints** that can receive the events. You can then create  [**event routes**](concepts-route-events.md) that specify which events generated by Azure Digital Twins are delivered to which endpoints.

This article walks you through the process of creating endpoints and routes with the [REST APIs](/rest/api/azure-digitaltwins/), the [.NET (C#) SDK](/dotnet/api/overview/azure/digitaltwins/client), and the [Azure Digital Twins CLI](how-to-use-cli.md).

Alternatively, you can also manage endpoints and routes with the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). For a version of this article that uses the portal instead, see [*How-to: Manage endpoints and routes (portal)*](how-to-manage-routes-portal.md).

## Prerequisites

- You'll need an **Azure account** (you can set one up for free [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F))
- You'll need an **Azure Digital Twins instance** in your Azure subscription. If you don't have an instance already, you can create one using the steps in [*How-to: Set up an instance and authentication*](how-to-set-up-instance-cli.md). Have the following values from setup handy to use later in this article:
    - Instance name
    - Resource group

[!INCLUDE [azure-cli-prepare-your-environment-no-header.md](../../includes/azure-cli-prepare-your-environment-no-header.md)]
    
## Create an endpoint for Azure Digital Twins

These are the supported types of endpoints that you can create for your instance:
* [Event Grid](../event-grid/overview.md)
* [Event Hubs](../event-hubs/event-hubs-about.md)
* [Service Bus](../service-bus-messaging/service-bus-messaging-overview.md)

For more information on the different endpoint types, see [*Choose between Azure messaging services*](../event-grid/compare-messaging-services.md).

This section explains how to create these endpoints using the Azure CLI. You can also manage endpoints with the [DigitalTwinsEndpoint control plane APIs](/rest/api/digital-twins/controlplane/endpoints).

[!INCLUDE [digital-twins-endpoint-resources.md](../../includes/digital-twins-endpoint-resources.md)]

### Create the endpoint

Once you have created the endpoint resources, you can use them for an Azure Digital Twins endpoint. The following examples show how to create endpoints using the [az dt endpoint create](/cli/azure/ext/azure-iot/dt/endpoint/create) command for the [Azure Digital Twins CLI](how-to-use-cli.md). Replace the placeholders in the commands with the details of your own resources.

To create an Event Grid endpoint:

```azurecli-interactive
az dt endpoint create eventgrid --endpoint-name <Event-Grid-endpoint-name> --eventgrid-resource-group <Event-Grid-resource-group-name> --eventgrid-topic <your-Event-Grid-topic-name> -n <your-Azure-Digital-Twins-instance-name>
```

To create an Event Hubs endpoint (key-based authentication):
```azurecli-interactive
az dt endpoint create eventhub --endpoint-name <Event-Hub-endpoint-name> --eventhub-resource-group <Event-Hub-resource-group> --eventhub-namespace <Event-Hub-namespace> --eventhub <Event-Hub-name> --eventhub-policy <Event-Hub-policy> -n <your-Azure-Digital-Twins-instance-name>
```

To create a Service Bus topic endpoint (key-based authentication):
```azurecli-interactive 
az dt endpoint create servicebus --endpoint-name <Service-Bus-endpoint-name> --servicebus-resource-group <Service-Bus-resource-group-name> --servicebus-namespace <Service-Bus-namespace> --servicebus-topic <Service-Bus-topic-name> --servicebus-policy <Service-Bus-topic-policy> -n <your-Azure-Digital-Twins-instance-name>
```

After successfully running these commands, the event grid, event hub, or Service Bus topic will be available as an endpoint inside of Azure Digital Twins, under the name you supplied with the `--endpoint-name` argument. You'll typically use that name as the target of an **event route**, which you'll create [later in this article](#create-an-event-route).

#### Create an endpoint with identity-based authentication

You can also create an endpoint that has identity-based authentication, to use the endpoint with a [managed identity](concepts-security.md#managed-identity-for-accessing-other-resources-preview). This option is only available for Event Hub and Service Bus-type endpoints (it's not supported for Event Grid).

The CLI command to create this type of endpoint is below. You'll need the following values to plug into the placeholders in the command:
* the Azure resource ID of your Azure Digital Twins instance
* an endpoint name
* an endpoint type
* the endpoint resource's namespace
* the name of the event hub or Service Bus topic
* the location of your Azure Digital Twins instance

```azurecli-interactive
az resource create --id <Azure-Digital-Twins-instance-Azure-resource-ID>/endpoints/<endpoint-name> --properties '{\"properties\": { \"endpointType\": \"<endpoint-type>\", \"authenticationType\": \"IdentityBased\", \"endpointUri\": \"sb://<endpoint-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net\", \"entityPath\": \"<name-of-event-hub-or-Service-Bus-topic>\"}, \"location\":\"<instance-location>\" }' --is-full-object
```

### Create an endpoint with dead-lettering

When an endpoint can't deliver an event within a certain time period or after trying to deliver the event a certain number of times, it can send the undelivered event to a storage account. This process is known as **dead-lettering**.

Endpoints with dead-lettering enabled can be set up with the Azure Digital Twins [CLI](how-to-use-cli.md) or [control plane APIs](how-to-use-apis-sdks.md#overview-control-plane-apis).

To learn more about dead-lettering, see [*Concepts: Event routes*](concepts-route-events.md#dead-letter-events). For instructions on how to set up an endpoint with dead-lettering, continue through the rest of this section.

#### Set up storage resources

Before setting the dead-letter location, you must have a [storage account](../storage/common/storage-account-create.md?tabs=azure-portal) with a [container](../storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-portal.md#create-a-container) set up in your Azure account. 

You'll provide the URI for this container when creating the endpoint later. The dead-letter location will be provided to the endpoint as a container URI with a [SAS token](../storage/common/storage-sas-overview.md). That token needs `write` permission for the destination container within the storage account. The fully formed **dead letter SAS URI** will be in the format of: `https://<storage-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net/<container-name>?<SAS-token>`.

Follow the steps below to set up these storage resources in your Azure account, to prepare to set up the endpoint connection in the next section.

1. Follow the steps in [*Create a storage account*](../storage/common/storage-account-create.md?tabs=azure-portal) to create a **storage account** in your Azure subscription. Make a note of the storage account name to use it later.
2. Follow the steps in [*Create a container*](../storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-portal.md#create-a-container) to create a **container** within the new storage account. Make a note of the container name to use it later.
3. Next, create a **SAS token** for your storage account that the endpoint can use to access it. Start by navigating to your storage account in the [Azure portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#home) (you can find it by name with the portal search bar).
4. In the storage account page, choose the _Shared access signature_ link in the left navigation bar to start setting up the SAS token.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-manage-routes-apis-cli/generate-sas-token-1.png" alt-text="Storage account page in the Azure portal" lightbox="./media/how-to-manage-routes-apis-cli/generate-sas-token-1.png":::

1. On the *Shared access signature page*, under *Allowed services* and *Allowed resource types*, select whatever settings you'd like. You'll need to select at least one box in each category. Under *Allowed permissions*, choose **Write** (you can also select other permissions if you want).
1. Set whatever values you want for the remaining settings.
1. When you're finished, select the _Generate SAS and connection string_ button to generate the SAS token. 

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-manage-routes-apis-cli/generate-sas-token-2.png" alt-text="Storage account page in the Azure portal showing all the setting selection to generate a SAS token, and highlighting the 'Generate SAS and connection string' button" lightbox="./media/how-to-manage-routes-apis-cli/generate-sas-token-2.png"::: 

1. This will generate several SAS and connection string values at the bottom of the same page, underneath the setting selections. Scroll down to view the values, and use the *Copy to clipboard* icon to copy the **SAS token** value. Save it to use later.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-manage-routes-apis-cli/copy-sas-token.png" alt-text="Copy SAS token to use in the dead-letter secret." lightbox="./media/how-to-manage-routes-apis-cli/copy-sas-token.png":::
    
#### Create the dead-letter endpoint

To create an endpoint that has dead-lettering enabled, add the following dead letter parameter to the [az dt endpoint create](/cli/azure/ext/azure-iot/dt/endpoint/create) command for the [Azure Digital Twins CLI](how-to-use-cli.md).

The value for the parameter is the **dead letter SAS URI** made up of the storage account name, container name, and SAS token that you gathered in the [previous section](#set-up-storage-resources). This parameter creates the endpoint with key-based authentication.

```azurecli
--deadletter-sas-uri https://<storage-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net/<container-name>?<SAS-token>
```

Add this parameter to the end of the endpoint creation commands from the [*Create the endpoint*](#create-the-endpoint) section earlier to create an endpoint of your desired type that has dead-lettering enabled.

Alternatively, you can create dead letter endpoints using the [Azure Digital Twins control plane APIs](how-to-use-apis-sdks.md#overview-control-plane-apis) instead of the CLI. To do this, view the [DigitalTwinsEndpoint documentation](/rest/api/digital-twins/controlplane/endpoints/digitaltwinsendpoint_createorupdate) to see how to structure the request and add the dead letter parameters.

#### Create a dead-letter endpoint with identity-based authentication

You can also create a dead-lettering endpoint that has identity-based authentication, to use the endpoint with a [managed identity](concepts-security.md#managed-identity-for-accessing-other-resources-preview). This option is only available for Event Hub and Service Bus-type endpoints (it's not supported for Event Grid).

To create this type of endpoint, use the same CLI command from earlier to [create an endpoint with identity-based authentication](#create-an-endpoint-with-identity-based-authentication), with an extra field in the JSON payload for a `deadLetterUri`.

Here are the values you'll need to plug into the placeholders in the command:
* the Azure resource ID of your Azure Digital Twins instance
* an endpoint name
* an endpoint type
* the endpoint resource's namespace
* the name of the event hub or Service Bus topic
* **dead letter SAS URI** details: storage account name, container name
* the location of your Azure Digital Twins instance

```azurecli-interactive
az resource create --id <Azure-Digital-Twins-instance-Azure-resource-ID>/endpoints/<endpoint-name> --properties '{\"properties\": { \"endpointType\": \"<endpoint-type>\", \"authenticationType\": \"IdentityBased\", \"endpointUri\": \"sb://<endpoint-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net\", \"entityPath\": \"<name-of-event-hub-or-Service-Bus-topic>\", \"deadLetterUri\": \"https://<storage-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net/<container-name>\"}, \"location\":\"<instance-location>\" }' --is-full-object
```

#### Message storage schema

Once the endpoint with dead-lettering is set up, dead-lettered messages will be stored in the following format in your storage account:

`{container}/{endpoint-name}/{year}/{month}/{day}/{hour}/{event-ID}.json`

Dead-lettered messages will match the schema of the original event that was intended to be delivered to your original endpoint.

Here is an example of a dead-letter message for a [twin create notification](how-to-interpret-event-data.md#digital-twin-life-cycle-notifications):

```json
{
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "id": "xxxxxxxx-xxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "type": "Microsoft.DigitalTwins.Twin.Create",
  "source": "<your-instance>.api.<your-region>.da.azuredigitaltwins-test.net",
  "data": {
    "$dtId": "<yourInstance>xxxxxxxx-xxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
    "$etag": "W/\"xxxxxxxx-xxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx\"",
    "TwinData": "some sample",
    "$metadata": {
      "$model": "dtmi:test:deadlettermodel;1",
      "room": {
        "lastUpdateTime": "2020-10-14T01:11:49.3576659Z"
      }
    }
  },
  "subject": "<yourInstance>xxxxxxxx-xxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "time": "2020-10-14T01:11:49.3667224Z",
  "datacontenttype": "application/json",
  "traceparent": "00-889a9094ba22b9419dd9d8b3bfe1a301-f6564945cb20e94a-01"
}
```

## Create an event route

**Prerequisite**: You need to create endpoints as described earlier in this article before you can move on to creating a route. You can proceed to creating an event route once your endpoints are finished setting up.

> [!NOTE]
> If you have recently deployed your endpoints, validate that they're finished deploying **before** attempting to use them for a new event route. If route deployment fails because the endpoints aren't ready, wait a few minutes and try again.
>
> If you are scripting this flow, you may want to account for this by building in 2-3 minutes of wait time for the endpoint service to finish deploying before moving on to route setup.

To actually send data from Azure Digital Twins to an endpoint, you'll need to define an **event route**. Event routes are used to connect event flow, throughout the system and to downstream services.

A route definition can contain these elements:
* The route name you want to use
* The name of the endpoint you want to use
* A filter that defines which events are sent to the endpoint 

If there is no route name, no messages are routed outside of Azure Digital Twins. 
If there is a route name and the filter is `true`, all messages are routed to the endpoint. 
If there is a route name and a different filter is added, messages will be filtered based on the filter.

One route should allow multiple notifications and event types to be selected. 

Event routes can be created with the Azure Digital Twins [**EventRoutes** data plane APIs](/rest/api/digital-twins/dataplane/eventroutes) or [**az dt route** CLI commands](/cli/azure/ext/azure-iot/dt/route). The rest of this section walks through the creation process.

### Create routes with the APIs and C# SDK

One way to define event routes is with the [data plane APIs](how-to-use-apis-sdks.md#overview-data-plane-apis). The samples in this section use the [.NET (C#) SDK](/dotnet/api/overview/azure/digitaltwins/client).

`CreateOrReplaceEventRouteAsync` is the SDK call that is used to add an event route. Here is an example of its usage:

:::code language="csharp" source="~/digital-twins-docs-samples/sdks/csharp/eventRoute_operations.cs" id="CreateEventRoute":::
    
> [!TIP]
> All SDK functions come in synchronous and asynchronous versions.

#### Event route sample SDK code

The following sample method shows how to create, list, and delete an event route with the C# SDK:

:::code language="csharp" source="~/digital-twins-docs-samples/sdks/csharp/eventRoute_operations.cs" id="FullEventRouteSample":::

### Create routes with the CLI

Routes can also be managed using the [az dt route](/cli/azure/ext/azure-iot/dt/route) commands for the Azure Digital Twins CLI. 

For more information about using the CLI and what commands are available, see [*How-to: Use the Azure Digital Twins CLI*](how-to-use-cli.md).

## Filter events

Without filtering, endpoints receive a variety of events from Azure Digital Twins:
* Telemetry fired by [digital twins](concepts-twins-graph.md) using the Azure Digital Twins service API
* Twin property change notifications, fired on property changes for any twin in the Azure Digital Twins instance
* Life-cycle events, fired when twins or relationships are created or deleted

You can restrict the events being sent by adding a **filter** for an endpoint to your event route.

To add a filter, you can use a PUT request to *https://{Your-azure-digital-twins-hostname}/eventRoutes/{event-route-name}?api-version=2020-10-31* with the following body:

:::code language="json" source="~/digital-twins-docs-samples/api-requests/filter.json":::

Here are the supported route filters. Use the detail in the *Filter text schema* column to replace the `<filter-text>` placeholder in the request body above.

[!INCLUDE [digital-twins-route-filters](../../includes/digital-twins-route-filters.md)]

[!INCLUDE [digital-twins-route-metrics](../../includes/digital-twins-route-metrics.md)]

## Next steps

Read about the different types of event messages you can receive:
* [*How-to: Interpret event data*](how-to-interpret-event-data.md)
