---
title: Azure Log integration with security center | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to get Azure Security center alerts working with Log integration
services: security
documentationcenter: na
author: Barclayn
manager: MBaldwin
editor: TomShinder

ms.assetid:
ms.service: security
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ums.workload: na
ms.date: 03/22/2017
ms.author: barclayn

---

# How to get your Security Center alerts in Azure log integration
This article provides the steps required to enable the Azure Log Integration service to pull Security Alert information generated by Azure Security Center. You must have successfully completed the steps in the  [Get started](security-azure-log-integration-get-started.md) article before performing the steps in this article.

## Detailed steps
The following steps will create the required Azure Active Directory Service Principal and assign the Service Principle read permissions to the subscription:
1. Open the command prompt and navigate to **c:\Program Files\Microsoft Azure Log Integration**
2. Run the command
 ``azlog createazureid``

    This command prompts you for your Azure login. The command then creates an [Azure Active Directory Service Principal](../active-directory/develop/active-directory-application-objects.md) in the Azure AD Tenants that host the Azure subscriptions in which the logged in user is an Administrator, a Co-Administrator, or an Owner. The command will fail if the logged in user is only a Guest user in the Azure AD Tenant. Authentication to Azure is done through Azure Active Directory (AD). Creating a service principal for Azlog Integration creates the Azure AD identity that will be given access to read from Azure subscriptions.

2. Next you will run a command that assigns reader access on the subscription to the service principal created in step 2. If you don’t specify a SubscriptionID, then the command will attempt to assign the service principal reader role to all subscriptions to which you have any access. </br></br>
``azlog authorize <SubscriptionID>`` </br> for example </br>
``azlog authorize 0ee55555-0bc4-4a32-a4e8-c29980000000``

    >[!NOTE]
    You may see warnings if you run the authorize command immediately after the createazureid command. There is some latency between when the Azure AD account is created and when the account is available for use. If you wait about 60 seconds after running the createazureid command to run the authorize command, then you should not see these warnings.

4. Check the following folders to confirm that the Audit log JSON files are there:
 * **c:\Users\azlog\AzureResourceManagerJson**
 * **c:\Users\azlog\AzureResourceManagerJsonLD** </br></br>
5. Check the following folders to confirm that Security Center alerts exist in them:</br></br>
 * **c:\Users\azlog\AzureSecurityCenterJson**
 * **c:\Users\azlog\AzureSecurityCenterJsonLD** </br></br>

If you run into any issues during the installation and configuration, please open a [support request](/azure-supportability/how-to-create-azure-support-request.md), select **Log Integration** as the service for which you are requesting support.

## Next steps
To learn more about Azure Log Integration, see the following documents:

* [Microsoft Azure Log Integration for Azure logs](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=53324) – Download Center for details, system requirements, and install instructions on Azure log integration.
* [Introduction to Azure log integration](security-azure-log-integration-overview.md) – This document introduces you to Azure log integration, its key capabilities, and how it works.
* [Partner configuration steps](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/azuresecurity/2016/08/23/azure-log-siem-configuration-steps/) – This blog post shows you how to configure Azure log integration to work with partner solutions Splunk, HP ArcSight, and IBM QRadar.
* [Azure log Integration frequently asked questions (FAQ)](security-azure-log-integration-faq.md) - This FAQ answers questions about Azure log integration.
* [Integrating Security Center alerts with Azure log Integration](../security-center/security-center-integrating-alerts-with-log-integration.md) – This document shows you how to sync Security Center alerts, along with virtual machine security events collected by Azure Diagnostics and Azure Audit Logs, with your log analytics or SIEM solution.
* [New features for Azure diagnostics and Azure Audit Logs](https://azure.microsoft.com/blog/new-features-for-azure-diagnostics-and-azure-audit-logs/) – This blog post introduces you to Azure Audit Logs and other features that help you gain insights into the operations of your Azure resources.
