# Managing Windows Azure SQL Database using SQL Server Management Studio 

You can use Windows Azure SQL Database Management Portal or the SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) client application to administer your SQL Database subscriptions and create and manage associated logical servers and databases. The guidance below describes how to use Management Studio to manage SQL Database logical servers and databases. For information on how to
use SQL Database connections in application code, see [How to Use SQL
Database][].

**Note:** You can use either SQL Server
2012 or the SQL Server 2008 R2 version of Management Studio. Earlier versions are not supported.

This task includes the following steps:

-   [Step 1: Get SQL Server Management Studio][]
-   [Step 2: Connect to SQL Database][]
-   [Step 3: Create and manage databases][]
-   [Step 4: Create and manage logins][]
-   [Step 5: Monitor SQL Database using Dynamic Management
    Views][]

## <a id="Step1" name="Step1"> </a>Step 1: Get Management Studio

Management Studio is an integrated environment for
managing SQL databases. When managing 
databases on Windows Azure, you can use the Management Studio application installed with
SQL Server or download the free SQL Server 2012 Management Studio Express (SSMSE) version. The steps below describe
how to install SSMSE.

1.  On the [Microsoft SQL Server 2012 Express][] page, select the x86 version of Management Studio if you are running a 32-bit operating system, or x64 if you are running a 64-bit operating system. Click **Download**, and when prompted, run Setup.

2.  Click **New SQL Server stand-alone installation or
    add features to an existing installation**, and click **Next**.


3.  **SQL Server 2012 Setup** shows the Installation Type page if there is no prior installation. If you get this page, click **New installation or add shared features to an
    existing instance of SQL Server** and click **Next**.

4.  Accept the license terms and click     **Next**.

5.  On the **Feature Selection** screen, **Management Tools -
    Basic** is preselected. This is because you are running the installer for Management Studio. If you are running Setup for all of SQL Server Express, choose the **Management Tools - Basic** option, and click **Next**.

6.  On the **Error Reporting** screen, you can optionally choose to send
    error reports to Microsoft. This is not required to use SSMSE. Click
    **Next** to start the installation.

7.  When the installation is complete, you will see the **Complete**
    page. Click **Close**. 


## <a id="Step2" name="Step2"> </a>Step 2: Connect to SQL Database

Connecting to SQL Database requires that you know the server name on Windows Azure. You might need to sign in to the portal to get this information.

-   

    1.  Sign in to the [Windows Azure Management Portal][].

    2.  In the left pane, click on **SQL Databases**.

    3.  On the SQL Databases home page, click **SERVERS** at the top of the page to list all of the servers associated with your subscription. Find the name of the server to which you want to connect and copy it to the clipboard.


-   Next, configure your SQL Database firewall to
    allow connections from your local machine. You do this by adding your local machines IP address to the firewall exception list.

    1.  On SQL Databases home page, click **SERVERS** and then click the server to which you want to connect.

    2.  Click **Configure** at the top of the page.

    3.  Copy the IP address in CURRENT CLIENT IP ADDRESS.

    4.  In the Configure page, **Allowed IP Addresses** includes three boxes where you can specify a rule name and a range of IP addresses as starting and ending values. For a rule name, you might enter the name of your computer. For the start and end range, paste in the IP address of your computer into both boxes, and then click the checkbox that appears.

        The rule name must be unique. If this is your development
        computer, you can enter the IP address in both the IP range
        start box and the IP range end box. Otherwise, you might need to enter a broader range of IP addresses to accommodate connections from additional computers in your organization.
 
    4. Click **SAVE** at the bottom of the page.

    **Note:** There can be up as much as a five-minute delay for changes
    to the firewall settings to take effect.

You are now ready to connect to SQL Database using Management Studio.

1.  On the taskbar, click **Start**, point to **All Programs**, point to
    **Microsoft SQL Server 2012**, and then click **SQL Server
    Management Studio**.

2.  In **Connect to Server**, specify the fully-qualified
    server name  as *serverName*.database.windows.net. On Windows Azure, the server name is an autogenerated string composed of alphanumeric characters.

3.  Select **SQL Server Authentication**.

4.  In the **Login** box, enter the SQL Server administrator login that you
    specified in the portal when creating your server in the format
    *login*@*yourServerName*.

5.  In the **Password** box, enter the password that you specified in
    the portal when creating your server.

6.  Click the **Options** button to expand the connection options.

7.  When connecting to SQL Database, you must establish a connection
    directly to a target database. In the **Connect to Database**
    dropdown, type **master**. When you create a server, the
    provisioning process also creates a database named **master**. This
    database is not billable, and it is used only to perform
    server-level administration for your server and all databases
    associated with it.

8.  Click **Connect** to establish the connection.

On Windows Azure, each SQL Database logical server is an abstraction that defines a grouping of databases. The physical location of each database might be on any computer in the data center. 

You use the **master**
database to perform server-level administration tasks that can encompass
all databases associated with your server. In the following steps, you'll learn how  to perform several common management tasks through the
**master** database. 

Many of the SSMS wizards you can use for tasks like
creating and modifying logins and databases on a SQL Server database are
not available for SQL databases on Windows Azure, so you'll need to utilize
Transact-SQL statements to accomplish these tasks. The steps below
provide examples of these statements. For more information about using
Transact-SQL with SQL Database, including details about which commands are
supported, see [Transact-SQL Reference (SQL Database)][].

## <a id="Step3" name="Step3"> </a>Step 3: Create and Manage Databases

While connected to the **master** database, you can create new
databases on the server and modify or drop existing databases. The steps
below describe how to accomplish several common database management
tasks through Management Studio. To perform these tasks, make sure you are connected to the
**master** database with the server-level principal login that you
created when you set up your server.

To open a query window in Management Studio, open the Databases folder, right-click on **master**, and then click **New Query**.

Click **Execute** to run the query.

-   Use the **CREATE DATABASE** statement to create a new database. For
    more information, see [CREATE DATABASE (SQL
    Database)][]. The statement below creates a new database named
    **myTestDB** and specifies that it is a Web Edition database
    with a maximum size of 1 GB.

        CREATE DATABASE myTestDB
        (MAXSIZE=1GB,
         EDITION='web');

-   Use the **ALTER DATABASE** statement to modify an existing database,
    for example if you want to change the name, maximum size, or edition
    (business or web) of the database. For more information, see [ALTER DATABASE (SQL Database)][]. The
    statement below modifies the database you created in the previous
    step to change the maximum size to 5 GB.

        ALTER DATABASE myTestDB
        MODIFY
        (MAXSIZE=5GB,
         EDITION='web');

-   Use **the DROP DATABASE** Statement to delete an existing database.
    For more information, see [DROP DATABASE (SQL
    Database)][]. The statement below deletes the **myTestDB**
    database, but don't drop it now because you will use it create logins in the next step.

        DROP DATABASE myTestBase;

-   The master database has the **sys.databases** view that you can use
    to view details about all databases. To view all existing databases,
    execute the following statement:

        SELECT * FROM sys.databases;

-   In SQL Database, the **USE** statement is not supported for switching
    between databases. Instead, you need to establish a connection
    directly to the target database.

**Note:** Many of the Transact-SQL statements that create or modify a
database must be run within their own batch and cannot be grouped with
other Transact-SQL statements. For more information, see the statement
specific information available from the links listed above.

## <a id="Step4" name="Step4"> </a>Step 4: Create and Manage Logins

The master database keeps track of logins and which logins have
permission to create databases or other logins. Manage logins by
connecting to the **master** database with the server-level principal
login that you created when you set up your server. You can use the
**CREATE LOGIN**, **ALTER LOGIN**, or **DROP LOGIN** statements to
execute queries against the master database that will manage logins
across the entire server. For more information, see [Managing Databases and Logins in SQL Database][]. 


-   Use the **CREATE LOGIN** statement to create a new server-level
    login. For more information, see [CREATE LOGIN
    (SQL Database)][]. The statement below creates a new login
    called **login1**. Replace **password1** with the password of your
    choice.

        CREATE LOGIN login1 WITH password='password1';

-   Use the **CREATE USER** statement to grant database-level
    permissions. All logins must be created in the **master** database,
    but for a login to connect to a different database, you
    must grant it database-level permissions using the **CREATE USER**
    statement on that database. For more information, see [CREATE USER (SQL Database)][]. 

-   To give login1
    permissions to a database called **myTestDB**, complete the following
    steps:

    1.  Refresh Object Explorer to view the **myTestDB** database that you just created. It should appear below the **System Databases** folder that contains **master**.  

     If you closed the connection, you can reconnect by selecting **Connect Object Explorer** on the File menu. Repeat the instructions in [Step 2: Connect to SQL Database][] to connect to the database, replacing **master** with **myTestDB** when you specify the database to which you want to connect.

    2.  Execute the following statement against the myTestDB database to
        create a database user named **login1User** that corresponds to
        the server-level login **login1**.

            CREATE USER login1User FROM LOGIN login1;

-   Use the **sp\_addrolemember** stored procedure to give the user
    account the appropriate level of permissions on the database. For
    more information, see [sp\_addrolemember
    (Transact-SQL)][]. The statement below gives **login1User**
    read-only permissions to the database by adding **login1User** to
    the **db\_datareader** role.

        exec sp_addrolemember 'db_datareader', 'login1User';    

-   Use the **ALTER LOGIN** statement to modify an existing login, for
    example if you want to change the password for the login. For
    more information, see [ALTER LOGIN (SQL 
    Database)][]. The **ALTER LOGIN** statement should be run against
    the **master** database. The
    statement below modifies the **login1** login to reset the password.
    Replace **newPassword** with the password of your choice, and
    **oldPassword** with the current password for the login.

        ALTER LOGIN login1
        WITH PASSWORD = 'newPassword'
        OLD_PASSWORD = 'oldPassword';

-   Use **the DROP LOGIN** statement to delete an existing login.
    Deleting a login at the server level also deletes any associated
    database user accounts. For more information,
    see [DROP DATABASE (SQL Database)][]. The **DROP LOGIN**
    statement should be run against the **master** database. The
    statement below deletes the **login1** login.

        DROP LOGIN login1;

-   The master database has the **sys.sql\_logins** view that you can
    use to view logins. To view all existing logins, execute the
    following statement:

        SELECT * FROM sys.sql_logins;

## <a id="Step5" name="Step5"> </a>Step 5: Monitor SQL Database using Dynamic Management Views

SQL Database supports several dynamic management views that you
can use to monitor an individual database. Below are a few examples of
the type of monitor data you can retrieve through these views. For
complete details and more usage examples, see [Monitoring SQL Database
using Dynamic Management Views][].

-   Querying a dynamic management view requires **VIEW DATABASE STATE**
    permissions. To grant the **VIEW DATABASE STATE** permission to a
    specific database user, connect to the database you want to manage
    with your server-level principle login and execute the following
    statement against the database:

        GRANT VIEW DATABASE STATE TO login1User;

-   Calculate database size using the **sys.dm\_db\_partition\_stats**
    view. The **sys.dm\_db\_partition\_stats** view returns page and
    row-count information for every partition in the database, which you
    can use to calculate the database size. The following query returns
    the size of your database in megabytes:

        SELECT SUM(reserved_page_count)*8.0/1024
        FROM sys.dm_db_partition_stats;   

-   Use the **sys.dm\_exec\_connections** and **sys.dm\_exec\_sessions**
    views to retrieve information about current user connections and
    internal tasks associated with the database. The following query
    returns information about the current connection:

        SELECT
            e.connection_id,
            s.session_id,
            s.login_name,
            s.last_request_end_time,
            s.cpu_time
        FROM
            sys.dm_exec_sessions s
            INNER JOIN sys.dm_exec_connections e
              ON s.session_id = e.session_id;

-   Use the **sys.dm\_exec\_query\_stats** view to retrieve aggregate
    performance statistics for cached query plans. The following query
    returns information about the top five queries ranked by average CPU
    time.

        SELECT TOP 5 query_stats.query_hash AS "Query Hash",
            SUM(query_stats.total_worker_time), SUM(query_stats.execution_count) AS "Avg CPU Time",
            MIN(query_stats.statement_text) AS "Statement Text"
        FROM
            (SELECT QS.*,
            SUBSTRING(ST.text, (QS.statement_start_offset/2) + 1,
            ((CASE statement_end_offset
                WHEN -1 THEN DATALENGTH(ST.text)
                ELSE QS.statement_end_offset END
                    - QS.statement_start_offset)/2) + 1) AS statement_text
             FROM sys.dm_exec_query_stats AS QS
             CROSS APPLY sys.dm_exec_sql_text(QS.sql_handle) as ST) as query_stats
        GROUP BY query_stats.query_hash
        ORDER BY 2 DESC;

## Additional Resources

[Introducing SQL Database][]   
 [Managing Databases and Logins in SQL Database][]   
 [Monitoring SQL Database using Dynamic Management Views][]   
 [SQL Database Provisioning Model][]   
 [Adding Users to your SQL Database][]   
 [Transact-SQL Reference (SQL Database)][]

  [How to Use SQL Database]: http://www.windowsazure.com/en-us/develop/net/how-to-guides/sql-azure/
  [Step 1: Get SQL Server Management Studio]: #Step1
  [Step 2: Connect to SQL Database]: #Step2
  [Step 3: Create and manage databases]: #Step3
  [Step 4: Create and manage logins]: #Step4
  [Step 5: Monitor SQL Database using Dynamic Management Views]:
    #Step5
  [Microsoft SQL Server 2012 Express]: http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=29062
  [SSMS Installer - Select installation type]: /media/installer_installation_type.png
  [SSMS Installer - Select features]: /media/installer_feature_selection.png
  [SSMS Installer - Installation complete]: /media/installer_completed.png
  [Windows Azure Management Portal]: http://windows.azure.com/
  [Get SQL Database server name from Management Portal]: /media/portal_get_database_name.png
  [Connect to SSMS]: /media/ssms_connect.png
  [Connect to SSMS -- properties]: /media/ssms_connect_properties.png
  [Transact-SQL Reference (SQL Database)]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ee336281.aspx
  [CREATE DATABASE (SQL Database)]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ee336274.aspx
  [ALTER DATABASE (SQL Database)]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ff394109.aspx
  [DROP DATABASE (SQL Database)]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ee336259.aspx
  [Managing Databases and Logins in SQL Database]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ee336235.aspx
  [CREATE LOGIN (SQL Database)]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ee336268.aspx
  [CREATE USER (SQL Database)]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee336277.aspx
  [sp\_addrolemember (Transact-SQL)]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms187750.aspx
  [ALTER LOGIN (SQL Database)]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ee336254.aspx
  [Monitoring SQL Database using Dynamic Management Views]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ff394114.aspx
  [Introducing SQL Database]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsazure/ee336230.aspx
  [SQL Database Provisioning Model]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee336227.aspx
  [Adding Users to your SQL Database]: http://blogs.msdn.com/b/sqlazure/archive/2010/06/21/10028038.aspx
