# Tutorial: Get started with verifiable credentials using a sample app (preview)

In this tutorial, we go over the steps needed to issue your first verifiable
credential: a Verified Credential Ninja Card. You can then use this card to
prove to a verifier that you are a Verified Credential Ninja, mastered in the
art of digital credentialing. Get started with Azure Active Directory Verifiable
Credentials by using the Verifiable Credentials sample app to issue your first
verifiable credential.

![This is an image of an example
card](media/get-started-verifiable-credentials/ninja-card.png)

>   [!IMPORTANT] Azure Verifiable Credentials is currently in public preview.
>   This preview version is provided without a service level agreement, and it's
>   not recommended for production workloads. Certain features might not be
>   supported or might have constrained capabilities. For more information, see
>   [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure
>   Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).

## Prerequisites

-   [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)

-   A system to host our sample site.

-   [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) version 10.14 or higher installed
    on our test system.

-   You need [GIT](https://git-scm.com/downloads) installed If you want to clone
    the repository that hosts the sample app,

-   A mobile device with Microsoft Authenticator version 6.2005.3599 or higher
    installed.

-   [NGROK](https://ngrok.com/) free.

## Download the sample code

To issue yourself a Verified Credential Ninja Card, you need to run a website on
your local machine. The website is used to initiate a verifiable credential
issuance process. We've provided a simple website, written in NodeJS, that we
use throughout this tutorial.

First, download our sample code from GitHub
[here](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-verifiable-credentials),
or clone the repository to your local machine:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-verifiable-credentials.git
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You may want to familiarize yourself with the code in the sample websites. The
`issuer` folder contains all code used to issue a verifiable credential. More
details are available in the sample's
[readme](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-verifiable-credentials).

## Run the issuer website

You can run the steps from within Visual Studio Code or any command line
available in your operating system. When you run the sample website, your device
needs to communicate with the Node server running on your local machine. We
recommend using [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) as an easy way to make your local
development server available over the internet.

1.  After you download and extract **ngrok**, we need to run:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 ngrok http 8081
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

>   By default the sample website runs on port `8081`. **Ngrok** outputs two
>   forwarding URLs for your server. Copy the URL with the `https://` prefix.

>   ![ngrok helps you make your application end points available over the
>   internet](media/get-started-verifiable-credentials/ngrok.png)

>   [!NOTE] If you are using PowerShell you may need to type `./ngrok` for the
>   command to be recognized.

>   Now that your local port is exposed to the internet using ngrok, the sample
>   site automatically uses the host name generated by ngrok. You're now ready
>   to run the sample website and issue yourself a Verified Credential Ninja
>   Card.

1.  Navigate to the `issuer` folder.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 cd ./issuer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  Once there we need to install all required packages and start the site.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 npm install
 node ./app.js
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  On your mobile device, open your browser and navigate to the ngrok
    forwarding URL. You should be able of successfully visiting the sample
    site's homepage. If the page opens, your device can communicate with the
    sample app running on your local server.

## Issue a credential

1.  Install Authenticator on your mobile device. Microsoft Authenticator is used
    to receive, store, and present your verifiable credentials to interested
    parties.

2.  Next, issue yourself a verifiable credential. The sample website displays a
    QR code, that you can be scan using Authenticator. The website also displays
    a deep link, which you can tap if you visit the website using your device's
    mobile browser.

    ![an example ngrok
    URL](media/get-started-verifiable-credentials/ngrok_url.png)

3.  Scan the website's QR code using Authenticator, or tap the website's deep
    link. To get your Ninja Card, you'll be prompted to sign in with your
    Credential Ninja account. After you are signed in, accept your Verified
    Credential Ninja Card.

Congratulations! You are now a verified credentialing Ninja. Now it is time to
verify your credential.

## Validate credentials

Now that you have completed the issuance portion of the tutorial and you have a
verifiable credential in Authenticator, it is time to validate it in your own
verifier app.

1.  Stop running your issuer ngrok service.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 control+c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  Now run ngrok with the verifier port 8082.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 .\ngrok http 8082
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  In another terminal window, open the Verifier app folder and run it
    similarly to how we ran the issuer app.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 cd ./verifier
 npm install
 node ./app.js
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  Open the ngrok forwarding url in your browser and tap on the button.

2.  Open Authenticator in the Credentials tab and tap on the QR code icon.

>   [!IMPORTANT] On iOS, it is the top right and on Android it is the bottom
>   right. Scan the QR code and choose.

1.  **Allow** on the new permission request screen in Authenticator.

After a successful presentation three things should have been updated:

-   The webpage should now display the attributes of your name "is a Verified
    Credential Ninja".

-   Your verifier app terminal should also display the same message from the
    logs.

-   In Authenticator, there should be an entry for recent activity of this
    presentation.

## Next steps

Now that you have successfully completed the quick start guide, it's time to
create your own Decentralized identifier in the Azure AD verifiable credentials
service and issue your own verifiable credential.

>   [!div class="nextstepaction"] [Configure your own issuer using the
>   verifiable credentials sample
>   app](./enable-your-tenant-verifiable-credentials.md)
