---
title: "include file"
description: "include file"
ms.custom: "include file"
services: azure-dev-spaces
ms.service: "azure-dev-spaces"
ms.component: "azds-kubernetes"
author: ghogen
ms.author: ghogen
ms.date: "05/11/2018"
ms.topic: "include"
manager: douge
---
## Preparing code for Docker and Kubernetes development
So far, you have a basic web app that can run locally. You'll now containerize it by creating assets that define the app's container and how it will deploy to Kubernetes. This task is easy to do with Azure Dev Spaces: 

1. Launch VS Code and open the `webfrontend` folder. (You can ignore any default prompts to add debug assets or restore the project.)
1. Open the Integrated Terminal in VS Code (using the **View > Integrated Terminal** menu).
1. Run this command (be sure that **webfrontend** is your current folder):

    ```cmd
    azds prep --public
    ```

The Azure CLI's `azds prep` command generates Docker and Kubernetes assets with default settings:
* `./Dockerfile` describes the app's container image, and how the source code is built and runs within the container.
* A [Helm chart](https://docs.helm.sh) under `./charts/webfrontend` describes how to deploy the container to Kubernetes.

For now, it isn't necessary to understand the full content of these files. It's worth pointing out, however, that **the same Kubernetes and Docker configuration-as-code assets can be used from development through to production, thus providing better consistency across different environments.**
 
A file named `./azds.yaml` is also generated by the `prep` command, and it is the configuration file for Azure Dev Spaces. It complements the Docker and Kubernetes artifacts with additional configuration that enables an iterative development experience in Azure.
