articles/azure-arc/servers/learn/tutorial-enable-vm-insights.md, before:

---
title: Monitor a hybrid machine with Azure Monitor for VMs
description: Learn how to collect and analyze data from a hybrid machine in Azure Monitor.
ms.service:  azure-arc
ms. subservice: azure-arc-servers
ms.topic: tutorial
author: mgoedtel
ms.author: magoedte
ms.date: 08/03/2020
---

# Tutorial: Monitor a hybrid machine with Azure Monitor for VMs

[Azure Monitor](../overview.md) can collect data directly from your hybrid virtual machines into a Log Analytics workspace for detailed analysis and correlation. Typically this would entail installing the [Log Analytics agent](../../../azure-monitor/platform/agents-overview.md#log-analytics-agent) on the machine using a script, manually, or automated method following your configuration management standards. Arc for servers (preview) recently introduced support to install the Log Analytics and Dependency agent [VM extensions](../manage-vm-extensions.md) for Windows and Linux, enabling Azure Monitor to collect data from your non-Azure VMs.

This tutorial shows you how to configure and collect data from your Linux or Windows VMs by enabling Azure Monitor for VMs following a simplified set of steps, which streamlines the experience and takes a shorter amount of time.  

## Prerequisites

* If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.

* VM extension functionality is available only in the list of [supported regions](../overview.md#supported-regions).

* See [Supported operating systems](../../../azure-monitor/insights/vminsights-enable-overview.md#supported-operating-systems) to ensure that the VMs operating system you're enabling is supported by Azure Monitor for VMs.

* Review firewall requirements for the Log Analytics agent provided in the [Log Analytics agent overview](../../../azure-monitor/platform/log-analytics-agent.md#network-requirements). The Azure Monitor for VMs Map Dependency agent doesn't transmit any data itself, and it doesn't require any changes to firewalls or ports.

## Sign in to Azure portal

Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

## Enable Azure Monitor for VMs

1. Launch the Azure Arc service in the Azure portal by clicking **All services**, then searching for and selecting **Machines - Azure Arc**.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/quick-enable-hybrid-vm/search-machines.png" alt-text="Search for Arc for servers in All Services" border="false":::

1. On the **Machines - Azure Arc** page, select the connected machine you created in the [quickstart](quick-enable-hybrid-vm.md) article.

1. From the left-pane under the **Monitoring** section, select **Insights** and then **Enable**.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-enable-vm-insights/insights-option.png" alt-text="Select Insights option from left-hand menu" border="false":::

1. On the Azure Monitor **Insights Onboarding** page, you are prompted to create a workspace. For this tutorial, we don't recommend you select an existing Log Analytics workspace if you have one already. Select the default, which is a workspace with a unique name in the same region as your registered connected machine. This workspace is created and configured for you.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-enable-vm-insights/enable-vm-insights.png" alt-text="Enable Azure Monitor for VMs page" border="false":::

1. You receive status messages while the configuration is performed. This process takes a few minutes as extensions are installed on your connected machine.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-enable-vm-insights/onboard-vminsights-vm-portal-status.png" alt-text="Enable Azure Monitor for VMs progress status message" border="false":::

    When it's complete, you get a message that the machine has been successfully onboarded and the insight has been successfully deployed.

## View data collected

After the deployment and configuration is completed, select **Overview** to navigate from the **Insights** page. Select **Insights**, and then select the **Performance** tab. On the Performance tab it shows a select group of performance counters collected from the guest operating system of your VM. Scroll down to view more counters, and move the mouse over a graph to view average and percentiles taken starting from the time when the Log Analytics VM extension was installed on the machine.

Select **Map** to open the maps feature, which shows the processes running on the virtual machine and their dependencies. Select **Properties** to open the property pane if it isn't already open.

Expand the processes for your virtual machine. Select one of the processes to view its details and to highlight its dependencies.

Select your virtual machine again and then select **Log Events**. You see a list of tables that are stored in the Log Analytics workspace for the virtual machine. This list will be different depending whether you're using a Windows or Linux virtual machine. Select the **Event** table. This includes all events from the Windows event log. Log Analytics opens with a simple query to retrieve collected event log entries.

Commit message:

added images and ref images in tutorial

articles/azure-arc/servers/learn/tutorial-enable-vm-insights.md, after:

---
title: Monitor a hybrid machine with Azure Monitor for VMs
description: Learn how to collect and analyze data from a hybrid machine in Azure Monitor.
ms.service:  azure-arc
ms. subservice: azure-arc-servers
ms.topic: tutorial
author: mgoedtel
ms.author: magoedte
ms.date: 08/03/2020
---

# Tutorial: Monitor a hybrid machine with Azure Monitor for VMs

[Azure Monitor](../overview.md) can collect data directly from your hybrid virtual machines into a Log Analytics workspace for detailed analysis and correlation. Typically this would entail installing the [Log Analytics agent](../../../azure-monitor/platform/agents-overview.md#log-analytics-agent) on the machine using a script, manually, or automated method following your configuration management standards. Arc for servers (preview) recently introduced support to install the Log Analytics and Dependency agent [VM extensions](../manage-vm-extensions.md) for Windows and Linux, enabling Azure Monitor to collect data from your non-Azure VMs.

This tutorial shows you how to configure and collect data from your Linux or Windows VMs by enabling Azure Monitor for VMs following a simplified set of steps, which streamlines the experience and takes a shorter amount of time.  

## Prerequisites

* If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.

* VM extension functionality is available only in the list of [supported regions](../overview.md#supported-regions).

* See [Supported operating systems](../../../azure-monitor/insights/vminsights-enable-overview.md#supported-operating-systems) to ensure that the VMs operating system you're enabling is supported by Azure Monitor for VMs.

* Review firewall requirements for the Log Analytics agent provided in the [Log Analytics agent overview](../../../azure-monitor/platform/log-analytics-agent.md#network-requirements). The Azure Monitor for VMs Map Dependency agent doesn't transmit any data itself, and it doesn't require any changes to firewalls or ports.

## Sign in to Azure portal

Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

## Enable Azure Monitor for VMs

1. Launch the Azure Arc service in the Azure portal by clicking **All services**, then searching for and selecting **Machines - Azure Arc**.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/quick-enable-hybrid-vm/search-machines.png" alt-text="Search for Arc for servers in All Services" border="false":::

1. On the **Machines - Azure Arc** page, select the connected machine you created in the [quickstart](quick-enable-hybrid-vm.md) article.

1. From the left-pane under the **Monitoring** section, select **Insights** and then **Enable**.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-enable-vm-insights/insights-option.png" alt-text="Select Insights option from left-hand menu" border="false":::

1. On the Azure Monitor **Insights Onboarding** page, you are prompted to create a workspace. For this tutorial, we don't recommend you select an existing Log Analytics workspace if you have one already. Select the default, which is a workspace with a unique name in the same region as your registered connected machine. This workspace is created and configured for you.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-enable-vm-insights/enable-vm-insights.png" alt-text="Enable Azure Monitor for VMs page" border="false":::

1. You receive status messages while the configuration is performed. This process takes a few minutes as extensions are installed on your connected machine.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-enable-vm-insights/onboard-vminsights-vm-portal-status.png" alt-text="Enable Azure Monitor for VMs progress status message" border="false":::

    When it's complete, you get a message that the machine has been successfully onboarded and the insight has been successfully deployed.

## View data collected

After the deployment and configuration is completed, select **Overview** to navigate away from the **Insights** page. Select **Insights**, and then select the **Performance** tab. On the Performance tab it shows a select group of performance counters collected from the guest operating system of your VM. Scroll down to view more counters, and move the mouse over a graph to view average and percentiles taken starting from the time when the Log Analytics VM extension was installed on the machine.

:::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-enable-vm-insights/insights-performance.png" alt-text="Azure Monitor for VMs Performance charts for selected machine" border="false":::

Select **Map** to open the maps feature, which shows the processes running on the virtual machine and their dependencies. Select **Properties** to open the property pane if it isn't already open.

:::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-enable-vm-insights/insights-map.png" alt-text="Azure Monitor for VMs Map for selected machine" border="false":::

Expand the processes for your virtual machine. Select one of the processes to view its details and to highlight its dependencies.

Select your virtual machine again and then select **Log Events**. You see a list of tables that are stored in the Log Analytics workspace for the virtual machine. This list will be different depending whether you're using a Windows or Linux virtual machine. Select the **Event** table. This includes all events from the Windows event log. Log Analytics opens with a simple query to retrieve collected event log entries.
