<properties
	pageTitle="Upload images to Azure Blob storage from a universal Windows app | Microsoft Azure"
	description="Learn how to use a JavaScript backend mobile service to upload images to Azure Blob Storage and access the images from your universal Windows app."
	services="mobile-services,storage"
	documentationCenter="windows"
	authors="ggailey777"
	manager="dwrede"
	editor=""/>

<tags
	ms.service="mobile-services"
	ms.workload="mobile"
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="mobile-windows-store"
	ms.devlang="dotnet"
	ms.topic="article"
	ms.date="07/21/2016"
	ms.author="glenga"/>

# Upload images to Azure Blob storage by using Mobile Services

[AZURE.INCLUDE [mobile-services-selector-upload-data-blob-storage](../../includes/mobile-services-selector-upload-data-blob-storage.md)]

##Overview

This topic shows you how to use Azure Mobile Services to enable your app to upload and store user-generated images in Azure Storage. Mobile Services uses a SQL Database to store data. However, binary large object (BLOB) data is more efficiently stored in Azure Blob storage service.

You cannot securely distribute with the client app the credentials required to securely upload data to the Blob Storage service. Instead, you must store these credentials in your mobile service and use them to generate a Shared Access Signature (SAS) that is used to upload a new image. The SAS, a credential with a short expiration&mdash;in this case 5 minutes, is returned securely by Mobile Services to the client app. The app then uses this temporary credential to upload the image. In this example, downloads from the Blob service are public.

In this tutorial you add functionality to the Mobile Services quickstart app to take pictures and upload the images to Azure by using an SAS generated by Mobile Services.

##Prerequisites

This tutorial requires the following:

+ Microsoft Visual Studio 2013 Update 3, or a later version
+ [Azure Storage account](../storage/storage-create-storage-account.md)
+ A camera or other image capture device attached to your computer.

This tutorial is based on the Mobile Services quickstart. Before you start this tutorial, you must first complete [Get started with Mobile Services].

##Update the registered insert script in the Azure classic portal

[AZURE.INCLUDE [mobile-services-configure-blob-storage](../../includes/mobile-services-configure-blob-storage.md)]

[AZURE.INCLUDE [mobile-services-windows-universal-dotnet-upload-to-blob-storage](../../includes/mobile-services-windows-universal-dotnet-upload-to-blob-storage.md)]

##Next steps

Now that you have been able to securely upload images by integrating your mobile service with the Blob service, check out some of the other backend service and integration topics:

+ [Schedule backend jobs in Mobile Services]

  	Learn how to use the Mobile Services job scheduler functionality to define server script code that is executed on a schedule that you define.

+ [Mobile Services server script reference]

    Reference topics for using server scripts to perform server-side tasks and integration with other Azure components and external resources.

+ [Mobile Services .NET How-to Conceptual Reference]

    Learn more about how to use Mobile Services with .NET


<!-- Anchors. -->
[Install the Storage Client library]: #install-storage-client
[Update the client app to capture images]: #add-select-images
[Update the insert script to generate an SAS]: #update-scripts
[Upload images to test the app]: #test
[Next Steps]:#next-steps

<!-- Images. -->

[2]: ./media/mobile-services-windows-store-dotnet-upload-data-blob-storage/mobile-add-storage-nuget-package-dotnet.png


<!-- URLs. -->
[Send email from Mobile Services with SendGrid]: store-sendgrid-mobile-services-send-email-scripts.md
[Schedule backend jobs in Mobile Services]: mobile-services-schedule-recurring-tasks.md
[Send push notifications to Windows Store apps using Service Bus from a .NET back-end]: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=277073&clcid=0x409
[Mobile Services server script reference]: mobile-services-how-to-use-server-scripts.md
[Get started with Mobile Services]: mobile-services-javascript-backend-windows-store-dotnet-get-started.md
[How To Create a Storage Account]: ../storage-create-storage-account.md
[Azure Storage Client library for Store apps]: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=276866
[Mobile Services .NET How-to Conceptual Reference]: mobile-services-windows-dotnet-how-to-use-client-library.md
[App settings]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windowsazure/b6bb7d2d-35ae-47eb-a03f-6ee393e170f7
