---
title: Monitoring Azure Machine Learning | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to use Azure Monitor to view, analyze, and create alerts on metrics from Azure Machine Learning.
services: machine-learning
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.subservice: core
ms.topic: conceptual

ms.reviewer: larryfr
ms.author: aashishb
author: aashishb
ms.date: 10/21/2019
---

# Monitor Azure Machine Learning

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Machine Learning and how you can use the Azure Monitor to analyze and alert on this data.

## Azure Monitor

Azure Machine Learning creates monitoring data using [Azure Monitor, which is a full stack monitoring service in Azure. Azure Monitor provides a complete set of features to monitor your Azure resources in addition to resources in other clouds and on-premises.

Start with the article [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor, which provides the following information:

- What is Azure Monitor?
- Costs associated with monitoring
- Monitoring data collected in Azure
- Configuring data collection
- Standard tools in Azure for analyzing and alerting on monitoring data

The following sections build on this information by describing the specific data gathered from Azure Machine Learning, providing examples for configuring data collection, and analyzing this data with Azure tools.

## Monitoring data from Azure Machine Learning

The following tables list the platform metrics collected for Azure Machine learning. All metrics are stored in the namespace **Azure Machine Learning Service Workspace**:

**Model**

| Model | Unit | Description |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| **Metric** | **Unit** | **Description** |
| Model deploy failed | Count | The number of model deployments that failed. |
| Model deploy started | Count | The number of model deployments started. |
| Model deploy succeeded | Count | The number of model deployments that succeeded. |
| Model register failed | Count | The number of model registrations that failed. |
| Model register succeeded | Count | The number of model registrations that succeeded. |

**Quota**

Quota information is for Azure Machine Learning compute only.

| Metric | Unit | Description |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| Active cores | Count | The number of active compute cores. |
| Active nodes | Count | The number of active nodes. |
| Idle cores | Count | The number of idle compute cores. |
| Idle nodes | Count | The number of idle compute nodes. |
| Leaving cores | Count |
| Leaving nodes | Count |
| Preempted cores | Count |
| Preempted nodes | Count |
| Quota utilization percentage | Percent |
| Total cores | Count | The total cores. |
| Total nodes | Count | The total nodes. |
| Unusable cores | Count |
| Unusable nodes | Count |

**Training run**

| Metric | Unit | Description |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| Completed runs | Count | The number of completed runs. |
| Failed runs | Count | The number of failed runs. |
| Started runs | Count | The number of started runs. |

## Configuration

????

## Analyzing metric data

You can analyze metrics for Azure Machine Learning by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/metrics-getting-started) for details on using this tool.

All metrics for Azure Machine Learning are in the namespace **Machine Learning Service Workspace**.

[!Metrics Explorer with Machine Learning Service Workspace selected](tbd)

For metrics that support dimensions, you can filter the metric with the desired dimension value. The following screenshot demonstrates using a filter to show **Active Cores** for the **Cluster Name** of `cpu-cluster`:

[!Filtering results to a cluster name of cpu-cluster](tbd)

## Analyzing log data

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables, with each table having its own set of unique properties. Azure Machine Learning stores data in the following tables:

## Alerts

The following table lists common and recommended alert rules for Azure Machine Learning:

| Alert type | Condition | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|
| | | |
| | | |

## Next steps

- See [<!-- Service --> monitoring data reference](monitor-service-reference.md) for a reference of the logs and metrics created by Azure Machine Learning.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/insights/monitor-azure-resource.md) for details on monitoring Azure resources.
