articles/cognitive-services/QnAMaker/Quickstarts/publish-kb-csharp.md, before:

---
title: "Quickstart: C# Publish Knowledge Base - Qna Maker"
titleSuffix: Azure Cognitive Services 
description: How to publish a knowledge base in C# for QnA Maker.
services: cognitive-services
author: diberry
manager: cjgronlund

ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.technology: qna-maker
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 09/12/2018
ms.author: diberry
---

# Publish a knowledge base in C#

The following code publishes an existing knowledge base, using the [Publish](https://westus.dev.cognitive.microsoft.com/docs/services/5a93fcf85b4ccd136866eb37/operations/5ac266295b4ccd1554da75fe) method.

1. Create a new C# project in your favorite IDE.
2. Add the code provided below.
3. Replace the `key` value with an access key valid for your subscription.
4. Run the program.

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using System.Net.Http;
using System.Net.Http.Headers;
using System.Text;
using System.Threading;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

// NOTE: Install the Newtonsoft.Json NuGet package.
using Newtonsoft.Json;

namespace QnAMaker
{
    class Program
    {
        static string host = "https://westus.api.cognitive.microsoft.com";
        static string service = "/qnamaker/v4.0";
        static string method = "/knowledgebases/";

        // NOTE: Replace this with a valid subscription key.
        static string key = "ENTER KEY HERE";

        // NOTE: Replace this with a valid knowledge base ID.
        static string kb = "ENTER ID HERE";

        static string PrettyPrint(string s)
        {
            return JsonConvert.SerializeObject(JsonConvert.DeserializeObject(s), Formatting.Indented);
        }

        async static Task<string> Post(string uri)
        {
            using (var client = new HttpClient())
            using (var request = new HttpRequestMessage())
            {
                request.Method = HttpMethod.Post;
                request.RequestUri = new Uri(uri);
                request.Headers.Add("Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key", key);

                var response = await client.SendAsync(request);
                if (response.IsSuccessStatusCode)
                {
                    return "{'result' : 'Success.'}";
                }
                else
                {
                    return await response.Content.ReadAsStringAsync();
                }
            }
        }

        async static void PublishKB()
        {
            var uri = host + service + method + kb;
            Console.WriteLine("Calling " + uri + ".");
            var response = await Post(uri);
            Console.WriteLine(PrettyPrint(response));
            Console.WriteLine("Press any key to continue.");
        }

        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            PublishKB();
            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }
}

```

## The publish a knowledge base response

A successful response is returned in JSON, as shown in the following example: 

```json
{
  "result": "Success."
}
```

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [QnA Maker (V4) REST API Reference](https://westus.dev.cognitive.microsoft.com/docs/services/5a93fcf85b4ccd136866eb37/operations/5ac266295b4ccd1554da75ff)

Commit message:

[Cogsvcs] QnaMaker - new includes for azure-samples

articles/cognitive-services/QnAMaker/Quickstarts/publish-kb-csharp.md, after:

---
title: "Quickstart: C# Publish Knowledge Base - Qna Maker"
titleSuffix: Azure Cognitive Services 
description: How to publish a knowledge base in C# for QnA Maker.
services: cognitive-services
author: diberry
manager: cjgronlund

ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.technology: qna-maker
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 09/12/2018
ms.author: diberry
---

# Publish a knowledge base in C#

The following code publishes an existing knowledge base, using the [Publish](https://westus.dev.cognitive.microsoft.com/docs/services/5a93fcf85b4ccd136866eb37/operations/5ac266295b4ccd1554da75fe) method.

[!INCLUDE [Code is available in Azure-Samples Github repo](../../../includes/cognitive-services-qnamaker-csharp-repo-note.md)]

1. Create a new C# project in your favorite IDE.
2. Add the code provided below.
3. Replace the `key` value with an access key valid for your subscription.
4. Run the program.

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using System.Net.Http;
using System.Net.Http.Headers;
using System.Text;
using System.Threading;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

// NOTE: Install the Newtonsoft.Json NuGet package.
using Newtonsoft.Json;

namespace QnAMaker
{
    class Program
    {
        static string host = "https://westus.api.cognitive.microsoft.com";
        static string service = "/qnamaker/v4.0";
        static string method = "/knowledgebases/";

        // NOTE: Replace this with a valid subscription key.
        static string key = "ENTER KEY HERE";

        // NOTE: Replace this with a valid knowledge base ID.
        static string kb = "ENTER ID HERE";

        static string PrettyPrint(string s)
        {
            return JsonConvert.SerializeObject(JsonConvert.DeserializeObject(s), Formatting.Indented);
        }

        async static Task<string> Post(string uri)
        {
            using (var client = new HttpClient())
            using (var request = new HttpRequestMessage())
            {
                request.Method = HttpMethod.Post;
                request.RequestUri = new Uri(uri);
                request.Headers.Add("Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key", key);

                var response = await client.SendAsync(request);
                if (response.IsSuccessStatusCode)
                {
                    return "{'result' : 'Success.'}";
                }
                else
                {
                    return await response.Content.ReadAsStringAsync();
                }
            }
        }

        async static void PublishKB()
        {
            var uri = host + service + method + kb;
            Console.WriteLine("Calling " + uri + ".");
            var response = await Post(uri);
            Console.WriteLine(PrettyPrint(response));
            Console.WriteLine("Press any key to continue.");
        }

        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            PublishKB();
            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }
}

```

## The publish a knowledge base response

A successful response is returned in JSON, as shown in the following example: 

```json
{
  "result": "Success."
}
```

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [QnA Maker (V4) REST API Reference](https://westus.dev.cognitive.microsoft.com/docs/services/5a93fcf85b4ccd136866eb37/operations/5ac266295b4ccd1554da75ff)
