---
title: 'Quickstart: Run Playwright tests at scale'
description: 'This quickstart shows how to run your Playwright tests with highly parallel cloud browsers using Microsoft Playwright Testing Preview. The cloud-hosted browsers support multiple operating systems and all modern browsers.'
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 10/04/2023
ms.custom: playwright-testing-preview, build-2024, ignite-2024
zone_pivot_group_filename: playwright-testing/zone-pivots-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: microsoft-playwright-testing
---

# Quickstart: Run end-to-end tests at scale with Microsoft Playwright Testing Preview

In this quickstart, you learn how to run your Playwright tests with highly parallel cloud browsers and troubleshoot failed tests easily using Microsoft Playwright Testing Preview. Use cloud infrastructure to validate your application across multiple browsers, devices, and operating systems. Publish the results and artifacts generated by Playwright to the service and view them in the service portal. 

After you complete this quickstart, you have a Microsoft Playwright Testing workspace to run your Playwright tests at scale and view test results and artifacts in the service portal.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Microsoft Playwright Testing is currently in preview. For legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, in preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability, see the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).

## Prerequisites

* An Azure account with an active subscription. If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.
* Your Azure account needs the [Owner](/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#owner), [Contributor](/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#contributor), or one of the [classic administrator roles](/azure/role-based-access-control/rbac-and-directory-admin-roles#classic-subscription-administrator-roles).
* A Playwright project. If you don't have project, create one by using the [Playwright getting started documentation](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro) or use our [Microsoft Playwright Testing sample project](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright-testing-service/tree/main/samples/get-started).
* Azure CLI. If you don't have Azure CLI, see [Install Azure CLI](/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).

## Create a workspace

To get started with running your Playwright tests at scale on cloud browsers, you first create a Microsoft Playwright Testing workspace in the Playwright portal.

[!INCLUDE [Create workspace in Playwright portal](./includes/include-playwright-portal-create-workspace.md)]

When the workspace creation finishes, you're redirected to the setup guide.


## Install Microsoft Playwright Testing package 

::: zone pivot="playwright-test-runner"

To use the service, install Microsoft Playwright Testing package. 

```npm
npm init @azure/microsoft-playwright-testing@latest
```

This generates `playwright.service.config.ts` file which serves to:

- Direct and authenticate Playwright to the Microsoft Playwright Testing service.
- Adds a reporter to publish test results and artifacts.

If you already have this file, the package asks you to override it. 

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="nunit-test-runner"

To use the service, install Microsoft Playwright Testing package. 

```PowerShell
dotnet add package Azure.Developer.MicrosoftPlaywrightTesting.NUnit --prerelease
```

::: zone-end

## Configure the service region endpoint

In your setup, you have to provide the region-specific service endpoint. The endpoint depends on the Azure region you selected when creating the workspace.

To get the service endpoint URL, perform the following steps:

1. In **Add region endpoint in your setup**, copy the region endpoint for your workspace.

    The endpoint URL matches the Azure region that you selected when creating the workspace. Make sure this URL is available in `PLAYWRIGHT_SERVICE_URL` environment variable.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/playwright-testing-region-endpoint.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to copy the workspace region endpoint in the Playwright Testing portal." lightbox="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/playwright-testing-region-endpoint.png":::

::: zone pivot="playwright-test-runner"

## Set up your environment

To set up your environment, you have to configure the `PLAYWRIGHT_SERVICE_URL` environment variable with the value you obtained in the previous steps.

We recommend that you use the `dotenv` module to manage your environment. With `dotenv`, you define your environment variables in the `.env` file.

1. Add the `dotenv` module to your project:

    ```shell
    npm i --save-dev dotenv
    ```

1. Create a `.env` file alongside the `playwright.config.ts` file in your Playwright project:

    ```
    PLAYWRIGHT_SERVICE_URL={MY-REGION-ENDPOINT}
    ```

    Make sure to replace the `{MY-REGION-ENDPOINT}` text placeholder with the value you copied earlier.

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="nunit-test-runner"
## Set up service configuration 

Create a file `PlaywrightServiceSetup.cs` in your project with the following content. 

```csharp
using Azure.Developer.MicrosoftPlaywrightTesting.NUnit;

namespace PlaywrightTests; // Remember to change this as per your project namespace

[SetUpFixture]
public class PlaywrightServiceSetup : PlaywrightServiceNUnit {};
```

> [!NOTE]
> Make sure your project uses `Microsoft.Playwright.NUnit` version 1.47 or above.

::: zone-end
## Set up Authentication

To run your Playwright tests in your Microsoft Playwright Testing workspace, you need to authenticate the Playwright client where you're running the tests with the service. This could be your local dev machine or CI machine. 

The service offers two authentication methods: Microsoft Entra ID and Access Tokens.

Microsoft Entra ID uses your Azure credentials, requiring a sign-in to your Azure account for secure access. Alternatively, you can generate an access token from your Playwright workspace and use it in your setup.

##### Set up authentication using Microsoft Entra ID 

Microsoft Entra ID is the default and recommended authentication for the service. From your local dev machine, you can use [Azure CLI](/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to sign-in

```CLI
az login
```
> [!NOTE]
> If you're a part of multiple Microsoft Entra tenants, make sure you sign in to the tenant where your workspace belongs. You can get the tenant ID from Azure portal. See [Find your Microsoft Entra Tenant](/azure/azure-portal/get-subscription-tenant-id#find-your-microsoft-entra-tenant). Once you get the ID, sign-in using the command `az login --tenant <TenantID>`

##### Set up authentication using access tokens

You can generate an access token from your Playwright Testing workspace and use it in your setup. However, we strongly recommend Microsoft Entra ID for authentication due to its enhanced security. Access tokens, while convenient, function like long-lived passwords and are more susceptible to being compromised.

1. Authentication using access tokens is disabled by default. To use, [Enable access-token based authentication](./how-to-manage-authentication.md#enable-authentication-using-access-tokens)

2. [Set up authentication using access tokens](./how-to-manage-authentication.md#set-up-authentication-using-access-tokens)

> [!CAUTION]
> We strongly recommend using Microsoft Entra ID for authentication to the service. If you are using access tokens, see [How to Manage Access Tokens](./how-to-manage-access-tokens.md)


## Enable artifacts in your Playwright setup 
::: zone pivot="playwright-test-runner"

In the `playwright.config.ts` file of your project, make sure you are collecting all the required artifacts.
```typescript
  use: {
    trace: 'on-first-retry',
    video:'retain-on-failure',
    screenshot:'on'
  }
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="nunit-test-runner"

Enable artifacts such as screenshot, videos and traces to be captured by Playwright. 
- For screenshots, see [capture screenshots](https://playwright.dev/dotnet/docs/screenshots#introduction)
- For videos, see [record videos for your tests](https://playwright.dev/dotnet/docs/videos#introduction)
- For traces, see [recording a trace](https://playwright.dev/dotnet/docs/trace-viewer-intro#recording-a-trace)

Once you collect these artifacts, attach them to the `TestContext` to ensure they are available in your test reports. For more information, see our [sample project for NUnit](https://aka.ms/mpt/nunit-sample)

::: zone-end

## Run your tests at scale and troubleshoot easily with Microsoft Playwright Testing

::: zone pivot="playwright-test-runner"

You've now prepared the configuration for running your Playwright tests in the cloud with Microsoft Playwright Testing. You can either use the Playwright CLI to run your tests, or use the [Playwright Test Visual Studio Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-playwright.playwright).

### Run a single test with the service

With Microsoft Playwright Testing, you get charged based on the number of total test minutes and number of test results published. If you're a first-time user or [getting started with a free trial](./how-to-try-playwright-testing-free.md), you might start with running a single test at scale instead of your full test suite to avoid exhausting your free trial limits.

> [!NOTE]
> Reporting feature is enabled by default for existing workspaces. This is being rolled out in stages and will take a few days. To avoid failures, confirm that `Rich diagnostics using reporting` setting is ON for your workspace before proceeding. See, [Enable reporting for workspace](./how-to-use-service-features.md#manage-feature-for-the-workspace).

After you validate that the test runs successfully, you can gradually increase the test load by running more tests with the service.

Perform the following steps to run a single Playwright test with Microsoft Playwright Testing:

# [Playwright CLI](#tab/playwrightcli)

To use the Playwright CLI to run your tests with Microsoft Playwright Testing, pass the service configuration file as a command-line parameter.

1. Open a terminal window.

1. Enter the following command to run your Playwright test on remote browsers in your workspace:

    Replace the `{name-of-file.spec.ts}` text placeholder with the name of your test specification file.

    ```bash
    npx playwright test {name-of-file.spec.ts} --config=playwright.service.config.ts
    ```

    After the test completes, you can view the test status in the terminal.

    ```output
    Running 1 test using 1 worker
        1 passed (2.2s)
    
    To open last HTML report run:
    
    npx playwright show-report
    ```

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/vscode)

To run a single Playwright test in Visual Studio Code with Microsoft Playwright Testing, select the service configuration file in the **Test Explorer** view. Then select and run the test from the list of tests.

1. Install the [Playwright Test Visual Studio Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-playwright.playwright).

1. Open the **Test Explorer** view in the activity bar.

    The test explorer automatically detects your Playwright tests and the service configuration in your project.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-test-explorer.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Test Explorer view in Visual Studio Code, which lists the Playwright tests." lightbox="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-test-explorer.png":::

1. Select **Select Default Profile**, and then select your default projects from the service configuration file.

    Notice that the service run profiles are coming from the `playwright.service.config.ts` file you added previously.

    By setting a default profile, you can automatically run your tests with the service, or run multiple Playwright projects simultaneously.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-choose-run-profile.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the menu to choose a run profile for your tests, highlighting the projects from the service configuration file." lightbox="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-choose-run-profile.png":::

1. From the list of tests, select the **Run test** button next to a test to run it.

    The test runs on the projects you selected in the default profile. If you selected one or more projects from the service configuration, the test runs on remote browsers in your workspace.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-run-test.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to run a single test in Visual Studio Code." lightbox="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-run-test.png":::

    > [!TIP]
    > You can still debug your test code when you run your tests on remote browsers by using the **Debug test** button.

1. You can view the test results directly in Visual Studio Code.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-test-results.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Playwright test results in Visual Studio Code." lightbox="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-test-results.png":::

---

You can now run multiple tests with the service, or run your entire test suite on remote browsers.

> [!CAUTION]
> Depending on the size of your test suite, you might incur additional charges for the test minutes and test results beyond your allotted free test minutes and free test results.

### Run a full test suite with the service

Now that you've validated that you can run a single test with Microsoft Playwright Testing, you can run a full Playwright test suite at scale.

Perform the following steps to run a full Playwright test suite with Microsoft Playwright Testing:

# [Playwright CLI](#tab/playwrightcli)

When you run multiple Playwright tests or a full test suite with Microsoft Playwright Testing, you can optionally specify the number of parallel workers as a command-line parameter.

1. Open a terminal window.

1. Enter the following command to run your Playwright test suite on remote browsers in your workspace:

    ```bash
    npx playwright test --config=playwright.service.config.ts --workers=20
    ```

    Depending on the size of your test suite, this command runs your tests on up to 20 parallel workers.

    After the test completes, you can view the test status in the terminal.

    ```output
    Running 6 tests using 6 workers
        6 passed (18.2s)
    
    Test report: https://playwright.microsoft.com/workspaces/<workspace-id>/runs/<run-id>
    ```

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/vscode)

To run your Playwright test suite in Visual Studio Code with Microsoft Playwright Testing:

1. Open the **Test Explorer** view in the activity bar.

1. Select the **Run tests** button to run all tests with Microsoft Playwright Testing.

    When you run all tests, the default profile is used. In the previous step, you configured the default profile to use projects from the service configuration.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-run-all-tests.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to run all tests in Visual Studio Code." lightbox="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-run-all-tests.png":::

    > [!TIP]
    > You can still debug your test code when you run your tests on remote browsers by using the **Debug tests** button.

1. Alternately, you can select a specific service configuration from the list to only run the tests for a specific browser configuration.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-run-all-tests-select-project.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to run all tests for a specific browser configuration, by selecting the project in Visual Studio Code." lightbox="./media/quickstart-run-end-to-end-tests/visual-studio-code-run-all-tests-select-project.png":::

1. You can view all test results in the **Test results** tab.

---
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="nunit-test-runner"

Run Playwright tests against browsers managed by the service and see the results in the unified portal using the configuration you created above. 

```bash
dotnet test --settings:.runsettings --logger "microsoft-playwright-testing" -- NUnit.NumberOfTestWorkers=20
```

The settings for your test run are defined in `.runsettings` file. See [how to use service package options](./how-to-use-service-config-file.md#config-options-in-runsettings-file)

After the test run completes, you can view the test status in the terminal.


```output
Starting test execution, please wait...

Initializing reporting for this test run. You can view the results at: https://playwright.microsoft.com/workspaces/<workspace-id>/runs/<run-id>

A total of 100 test files matched the specified pattern.

Test Report: https://playwright.microsoft.com/workspaces/<workspace-id>/runs/<run-id>

Passed!  - Failed:     0, Passed:     100, Skipped:     0, Total:     100, Duration: 59 s - PlaywrightTestsNUnit.dll (net7.0)

Workload updates are available. Run `dotnet workload list` for more information.
```
::: zone-end

## View test runs and results in the Playwright portal

You can now troubleshoot the failed test cases in the Playwright portal.

::: zone pivot="playwright-test-runner"

[!INCLUDE [View test runs and results in the Playwright portal](./includes/include-playwright-portal-view-test-results.md)]

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="nunit-test-runner"

[!INCLUDE [View test runs and results in the Playwright portal](./includes/include-playwright-portal-view-test-results-nunit.md)]

::: zone-end


> [!TIP]
> You can use Microsoft Playwright Testing service features independently. You can publish test results to the portal without using the cloud-hosted browsers feature and you can also use only cloud-hosted browsers to expedite your test suite without publishing test results. 

> [!NOTE]
> The test results and artifacts that you publish are retained on the service for 90 days. After that, they are automatically deleted.  

## Optimize parallel worker configuration

Once your tests are running smoothly with the service, experiment with varying the number of parallel workers to determine the optimal configuration that minimizes test completion time.

With Microsoft Playwright Testing, you can run with up to 50 parallel workers. Several factors influence the best configuration for your project, such as the CPU, memory, and network resources of your client machine, the target application's load-handling capacity, and the type of actions carried out in your tests.

::: zone pivot="playwright-test-runner"
You can specify the number of parallel workers on the Playwright CLI command-line, or configure the `workers` property in the Playwright service configuration file.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="nunit-test-runner"
You can specify the number of parallel workers on the Playwright CLI command-line, or configure the `NumberOfTestWorkers` property in the `.runsettings` file.
::: zone-end

Learn more about how to [determine the optimal configuration for optimizing test suite completion](./concept-determine-optimal-configuration.md).

## Next step

You've successfully created a Microsoft Playwright Testing workspace in the Playwright portal and run your Playwright tests on cloud browsers.

Advance to the next quickstart to set up continuous end-to-end testing by running your Playwright tests in your CI/CD workflow.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Set up continuous end-to-end testing in CI/CD](./quickstart-automate-end-to-end-testing.md)
