---
title: Set up a custom domain with Azure DNS in Azure Static Web Apps
description: Use Azure DNS to manage your domain name for Azure Static Web Apps
services: static-web-apps
author: craigshoemaker
ms.service: static-web-apps
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/30/2024
ms.author: cshoe
---

# Set up a custom domain with Azure DNS in Azure Static Web Apps

By default, Azure Static Web Apps provides an autogenerated domain name for your website, but you can point a custom domain to your site. Free SSL/TLS certificates are automatically created for the autogenerated domain name and any custom domains you may add.

Suppose you buy the domain `example.com` from a domain name registrar and then create a zone with the name `example.com` in Azure DNS. You want `www.example.com` to point to your Static Web Apps site.

- If you're using an apex domain (a domain without a subdomain, also known as a root domain), see [configuring a custom apex domain with Azure DNS](apex-domain-azure-dns.md).
- If you're using an external DNS provider, see [configuring a custom domain with external DNS](custom-domain-external.md) or [configuring a custom apex domain with external DNS](apex-domain-external.md).

## Prerequisites

- A domain purchased from a domain name registrar and hosted on Azure DNS. For details, see [Delegate your domain to Azure DNS](/azure/dns/dns-delegate-domain-azure-dns).

## Map the domain to your website

Now that your domain is hosted on Azure DNS, you can create a CNAME record for `www.<your domain>` to point to your Static Web App.

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

1. Enter the name of your static web app in the top search bar, or find the static web app in your resources.

1. Under **Settings**, select **Custom domains**.

1. Select **+ Add**, then select **Custom domain on Azure DNS**.

1. Enter the following values in the *Add custom domain on Azure DNS* window.

    | Field name | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | DNS zone | Select your domain name hosted on Azure DNS |
    | Subdomain | **www** |

   The *Full domain* is updated and should match the desired custom domain name.

1. Select **Add**

Static Web Apps makes the necessary adjustments to the DNS zone (including adding a CNAME), then validates the changes are available in the global DNS system.

> [!WARNING]
> If you receive the message *CNAME Record is invalid*, then check that your DNS zone lists the Microsoft DNS services with your DNS registrar.  If you have recently moved the domain to Azure DNS, you may need to wait for DNS propagation before adding the custom domain.

## Validate the custom domain

It may take some time for the DNS changes to propagate. The default time for Azure DNS is 1 hour.

Open a new browser and go to your domain (for example, `https://www.example.com`). Inspect the location to verify that your site is served securely using `https`.
