---
title: Custom domains with Azure Static Web Apps
description: Using a custom domain with Azure Static Web Apps
services: static-web-apps
author: v1212
ms.service: azure-static-web-apps
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/24/2024
ms.author: wujia
---

# Custom domains with Azure Static Web Apps

> [!NOTE]
> Custom domain validation for Enterprise Grade Edge Static Web Apps now requires TXT token method - CNAME validation is no longer supported for new domains.

By default, Azure Static Web Apps provides an autogenerated domain name for your website, but you can point a custom domain to your site. Free SSL/TLS certificates are automatically created for the autogenerated domain name and any custom domains you may add.

When you map a custom domain to a static web app, you have a few options available, which include configuring subdomains and an apex domain.

The following table includes links to articles that demonstrate how to configure a custom domain based provider type. <sup>1</sup>

| Action | Using... | Using... |
|--|--|--|
| Set up a domain with the `www` subdomain | [Azure DNS](custom-domain-azure-dns.md) | [External provider](custom-domain-external.md) |
| Set up an apex domain | [Azure DNS](apex-domain-azure-dns.md) | [External provider](apex-domain-external.md) |

<sup>1</sup> Some registrars like GoDaddy don't support domain records that affect how you configure your apex domain. Consider using [Azure DNS](custom-domain-azure-dns.md) with these registrars to set up your apex domain.

> [!NOTE]
> Adding a custom domain to a [preview environment](preview-environments.md) is not supported. Unicode domains, including Punycode domains and the `xn--` prefix are also not supported.

## About domains

Setting up an apex domain is a common scenario to configure once your domain name is set up. Creating an apex domain is achieved by configuring an `ALIAS` or `ANAME` record or through `CNAME` flattening. Some domain registrars like GoDaddy and Squarespace (formerly Google) don't support these DNS records. If your domain registrar doesn't support all the DNS records you need, consider using [Azure DNS to configure your domain](custom-domain-azure-dns.md). 

Alternatively, for domain registrars that don't support `ALIAS` records, `ANAME` records or `CNAME` flattening, you can configure an `A` record for your static web app. This configuration directs traffic to a single regional host of your static web app. Using `A` records isn't recommended as your application no longer benefits from global distribution, and this type of setup could affect application performance if your traffic is globally distributed.

> [!NOTE]  
> `CNAME` record maps a domain name to another domain (or subdomain) whereas `A` record maps a domain name to an IP address. If the IP address changes, a `CNAME` entry is still valid, unlike `A` record. Let’s say you have WebApp1 and you would like users to access it from https://www.contoso.com. You can do it in two possible ways: you can create a `CNAME` record and map it to WebApp1.azurestaticapps.net. Alternatively, you can create an `A` record and map it to the IP address of WebApp1.

The following are terms you might encounter as you set up a custom domain.

* **Apex or root domains**: Given the domain `www.example.com`, the `www` prefix is known as the subdomain, while the remaining segment of `example.com` is referred to as the apex domain.

* **Domain registrar**: A registrar verifies the availability of a domain sells the rights to purchase a domain name.

* **DNS zone**: A Domain Name System (DNS) zone hosts the DNS records associated to a specific domain. There are various records available which direct traffic for different purposes. For example, the domain `example.com` may contain several DNS records. One record handles traffic for `mail.example.com` (for a mail server), and another `www.example.com` (for a website).

* **DNS hosting**: A DNS host maintains DNS servers that resolve a domain name to a specific IP address.

* **Name server**: A name server is responsible for storing the DNS records for a domain.

For custom domain verification to work with Static Web Apps, the DNS must be publicly resolvable. For automatic certificate renewal to work, the custom domain must resolve to the static web app over public internet. Automatic certificate renewal is supported even when you enable private endpoints. The purpose of a private endpoint for Static Web Apps is to block internet access to the site contents, but not to block internet DNS resolution to the site.

## Zero downtime migration

You may want to migrate a custom domain currently serving a production website to your static web app with zero downtime. DNS providers don't accept multiple records for the same name and host, so you can separately validate your ownership of the domain and route traffic to your web app.

1. Open your static web app in the Azure portal.

1. Add a **TXT record** for your custom domain (APEX or subdomain). Instead of entering the *Host* value as displayed, enter the *Host* in your DNS provider as follows:
   * For APEX domains, enter `_dnsauth.www.<YOUR-DOMAIN.COM>`.
   * For subdomains, enter `_dnsauth.<SUBDOMAIN>.<YOUR-DOMAIN.COM>`.

1. Once your domain is validated, you can migrate your traffic to your static web app by updating your `CNAME`, `ALIAS`, or `A` record to point to your [default host name](./apex-domain-external.md)

## Migrating domains between instances

Azure Static Web Apps only permit binding a unique domain to a single resource within a slice. Attempting to bind a domain already bound to another resource without first disassociating from the original resource will result in failure.

The slice your resource is placed in can be determined by inspecting the default URL assigned to it:

`<random-prefix>.<slice>.azurestaticapps.net`

For example, a Static Web App site with the default URL of `orange-pond-0a04b7203.2.azurestaticapps.net` has been placed in slice number 2. 

If the static app you're migrating the domain from and to are both in the same slice you must either:

* Remove the domain from one instance, then add it to your new instance. This will result in some downtime.
* Delete and redeploy the new instance until the resulting resource is placed into a slice different from the source instance.

## Next steps

Use the following links for steps on how to set up your domain based on your provider.

* [Use Azure DNS](custom-domain-azure-dns.md)
* [Use an external DNS provider](custom-domain-external.md)
