---
title: "Tutorial: Deploy server-rendered Next.js websites on Azure Static Web Apps"
description: "Generate and deploy Next.js dynamic sites with Azure Static Web Apps."
services: static-web-apps
author: christiannwamba
ms.service: static-web-apps
ms.topic:  tutorial
ms.date: 05/08/2020
ms.author: chnwamba
---


# Deploy server-rendered Next.js websites on Azure Static Web Apps Preview

In this tutorial, you learn to deploy a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) generated static website to [Azure Static Web Apps](overview.md). To begin, you learn to set up, configure, and deploy a Next.js app. During this process, you also learn to deal with common challenges often faced when generating static pages with Next.js

## Prerequisites

- An Azure account with an active subscription. [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
- A GitHub account. [Create an account for free](https://github.com/join).
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) installed.

## Set up a Next.js app

Rather than using the Next.js CLI to create an app, you can use a starter repository that includes an existing Next.js app. This repository features a Next.js app with dynamic routes, which highlights a common deployment issue. Dynamic routes need an extra deployment configuration which you will learn more about in a moment.

To begin, create a new repository under your GitHub account from a template repository. 

1. Navigate to <http://github.com/staticwebdev/nextjs-starter/generate>
1. Name the repository **nextjs-starter**
1. Next, clone the new repo to your machine. Make sure to replace `<YOUR_GITHUB_ACCOUNT_NAME>` with your account name.

    ```bash
    git clone http://github.com/<YOUR_GITHUB_ACCOUNT_NAME>/nextjs-starter
    ```

1. Navigate to the newly cloned Next.js app:

   ```bash
   cd nextjs-starter
   ```

1. Install dependencies:

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

1. Start Next.js app in development:

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

Navigate to <http://localhost:3000> to open the app, where you should see the following website open in your preferred browser:

:::image type="content" source="media/deploy-nextjs/start-nextjs-app.png" alt-text="Start Next.js app":::

When you click on a framework/library, you should see a details page about the selected item:

:::image type="content" source="media/deploy-nextjs/start-nextjs-details.png" alt-text="Details page":::

## Generate a static website from Next.js build

When you build a Next.js site using `npm run build`, the app is built as a traditional web app, not a static site. To generate a static site, use the following application configuration.

1. To configure static routes, create file named _next.config.js_ at the root of your project and add the following code..

    ```javascript
    module.exports = {
      exportTrailingSlash: true,
      exportPathMap: function() {
        return {
          '/': { page: '/' }
        };
      }
    };
    ```
    
      This configuration maps `/` to the Next.js page that is served for the `/` route, and that is the _pages/index.js_ page file.

1. Update the _package.json_'s build script to also generate a static site after building, using the `next export` command. The `export` command generates a static site.

    ```json
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "next dev",
      "build": "next build && next export",
    },
    ```

    Now with this command in place, Static Web Apps will run the `build` script every time you push a commit.

1. Generate a static site:

    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

    The static site is generated and copied into an _out_ folder at the root of your working directory.

    > [!NOTE]
    > This folder is listed in the _.gitignore_ file because it should be generated by CI/CD when you deploy.

## Push your static website to GitHub

Azure Static Web Apps deploys your app from a GitHub repository and keeps doing so for every pushed commit to a designated branch. Use the following commands sync your changes to GitHub.

1. Stage all changed files

    ```bash
    git add .
    ```

1. Commit all changes

    ```bash
    git commit -m "Update build config"
    ```

1. Push your changes to GitHub.

    ```bash
    git push origin master
    ```

## Deploy your static website

The following steps show how to link the app you just pushed to GitHub to Azure Static Web Apps. Once in Azure, you can deploy the application to a production environment.

### Create a static app

1. Navigate to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com)
1. Click **Create a Resource**
1. Search for **Static Web Apps**
1. Click **Static Web Apps (Preview)**
1. Click **Create**

1. Select a subscription from the *Subscription* drop-down list or use the default value.
1. Click the **New** link below the *Resource group* drop-down. In *New resource group name*, type **mystaticsite** and click **OK**
1. Provide a globally unique name for your app in the **Name** text box. Valid characters include `a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`, and `-`. This value is used as the URL prefix for your static app in the format of `https://<APP_NAME>.azurestaticapps.net`.
1. In the *Region* drop-down, choose a region closest to you.
1. Select **Free** from the SKU drop-down.

   :::image type="content" source="media/deploy-nextjs/create-static-web-app.png" alt-text="Create Static Web App":::

### Add a GitHub repository

The new Static Web Apps account needs access to the repository with your Next.js app so it can automatically deploy commits.

1. Click the **Sign in with GitHub button**
1. Select the **Organization** under which you created the repo for your Next.js project, which may be your GitHub username.
1. Find and select the name of the repository you created earlier.
1. Choose **master** as the branch from the *Branch* drop-down.

   :::image type="content" source="media/deploy-nextjs/connect-github.png" alt-text="Connect GitHub":::

### Configure the build process

Azure Static Web Apps is built to automatically carry out common tasks like installing npm modules and running `npm run build` during each deployment. There are, however, a few settings like the application source folder and the build destination folder that you need to configure manually.

1. Click on the **Build** tab to configure the static output folder.

   :::image type="content" source="media/deploy-nextjs/build-tab.png" alt-text="Build tab":::

2. Type **out** in the *App artifact location* text box.

### Review and create

1. Click the **Review + Create** button to verify the details are all correct.
1. Click **Create** to start the creation of the resource and also provision a GitHub Action for deployment.
1. Once the deployment is completed, click **Go to resource**
1. On the _Overview_ window, click the *URL* link to open your deployed application. 

If the website does note immediately load, then the background GitHub Actions workflow is still running. Once the workflow is complete you can then click refresh the browser to view your web app.
If the website does note immediately load, then the background GitHub Actions workflow is still running. Once the workflow is complete you can then click refresh the browser to view your web app.

You can check the status of the Actions workflows by navigating to the Actions for your repository:

```url
https://github.com/<YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME>/nextjs-starter/actions
```

### Sync changes

When you created the app, Azure Static Web Apps created a GitHub Actions workflow file in your repository. You need to bring this file down to your local repository so your git history is synchronized.

Return to the terminal and run the following command `git pull origin master`.

## Configure dynamic routes

Navigate to the newly-deployed site and click on one of the framework or library logos. Instead of getting a details page, you get a 404 error page.

:::image type="content" source="media/deploy-nextjs/404-in-production.png" alt-text="404 on dynamic routes":::

The reason for this error is because Next.js only generated the home page based on the application configuration.

## Generate static pages from dynamic routes

1. Update the _next.config.js_ file so that Next.js uses a list of all available data to generate static pages for each framework/library:

   ```javascript
   const data = require('./utils/projectsData');

   module.exports = {
     exportTrailingSlash: true,
     exportPathMap: async function () {
       const { projects } = data;
       const paths = {
         '/': { page: '/' },
       };
  
       projects.forEach((project) => {
         paths[`/project/${project.slug}`] = {
           page: '/project/[path]',
           query: { path: project.slug },
         };
       });
  
       return paths;
     },
   };
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > The `exportPathMap` function is an async function, so you can make a request to an API in this function and use the returned list to generate the paths.

2. Push the new changes to your GitHub repository and wait for a few minutes while GitHub Actions builds your site again. After the build is complete, the 404 error disappears.

   :::image type="content" source="media/deploy-nextjs/404-in-production-fixed.png" alt-text="404 on dynamic routes fixed":::

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Set up a custom domain](custom-domain.md)
