---
description: The reference of Azure Static Web Apps CLI commands.
title: Azure Static Web Apps CLI reference
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 07/25/2025
ms.author: jikunchen
ms.service: azure-static-web-apps
author: cjk7989
---

# Azure Static Web Apps CLI reference

The reference of Azure Static Web Apps CLI commands.

## Commands

| Command | Description | Type | Status |
|---|---|---|---|
| [swa login](#swa-login) | Log in to Azure. | SWA Core | GA |
| [swa init](#swa-init) | Configures a new Azure Static Web Apps project. | SWA Core | GA |
| [swa build](#swa-build) | Builds the application. If you have a Node.js application, it installs dependencies first. | SWA Core | GA |
| [swa start](#swa-start) | Start the Azure Static Web Apps emulator from a directory or bind to a running dev server. | SWA Core | GA |
| [swa deploy](#swa-deploy) | Deploy the current project to Azure Static Web Apps. | SWA Core | GA |
| [swa db](#swa-db) | Generate and edit your Static Web Apps database connections configuration. | SWA Core | GA |

## Global Parameters

| Parameter | Summary |
|---|---|
| --version, -v | Display the version number. |
| --verbose, --V [level] | Enable verbose output. Level values include `silly`, `info`, `log` (default), and `silent`. |
| --config, -c [path] | Path to the swa-cli.config.json file. |
| --config-name, -cn | Configuration used by the CLI. |
| --print-config, -g | Print all resolved options. Default is `false`. |
| --help, -h | Show context-sensitive help. |

## swa login

Log in to Azure.

Authenticate with Azure to get a deployment token for Azure Static Web Apps, using the `swa deploy` command.

### Syntax

```azstatic-cli
swa login
          [--subscription-id]
          [--resource-group]
          [--tenant-id]
          [--client-id]
          [--client-secret]
          [--app-name]
          [--clear-credentials]
          [--use-keychain]
          [--no-use-keychain]
```

### Examples

#### Example 1: Interactive log in to Azure

```azstatic-cli
swa login
```

### Parameters

___`--subscription-id, -S`___

Azure subscription ID used by this project. The default is `process.env.AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`.

___`--resource-group, -R`___

Name of resource group. You can configure the default group using `az configure --defaults group=<name>`.

___`--tenant-id, -T`___

Azure tenant ID. The default is `process.env.AZURE_TENANT_ID`.

___`--client-id, -C`___

Azure client ID.

___`--client-secret, -CS`___

Azure client secret.

___`--app-name, -n`___

Azure Static Web Apps app name.

___`--clear-credentials -cc`___

Clear persisted credentials before login. The default is `false`.

___`--use-keychain, -u`___

Use the operating system native keychain for persistent credentials. The default is `true`.

___`--no-use-keychain, -nu`___

Disable use of the operating system native keychain.

___[Global Parameters](#global-parameters)___

## swa init

Configures a new Azure Static Web Apps project.

Configures a new Azure Static Web Apps project with the Static Web Apps CLI. Interactive mode prompts you for a configuration name, detects your project settings and the frameworks used. Once complete, a new static web app is created and a `swa-cli.config.json` file is generated in the current directory.

You can run `swa init` multiple times to create different configurations for your project. You may want to do this if you're working on a monorepo and want to configure different projects.

The generated configuration file is used in every command you run with the Static Web Apps CLI. If you have multiple named configurations, you can use the positional argument or `--config-name` option to specify which configuration you want to use.

The following is an example configuration generated by the `init` command:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://aka.ms/azure/static-web-apps-cli/schema",
  "configurations": {
    "myApp": {
      "appLocation": ".",
      "apiLocation": "api",
      "outputLocation": "dist",
      "appBuildCommand": "npm run build",
      "apiBuildCommand": "npm run build --if-present",
      "run": "npm run dev",
      "appDevserverUrl": "http://localhost:8080"
    }
  }
}
```

### Syntax

```azstatic-cli
swa init
          [--yes]
```

### Examples

#### Example 1: Create a new configuration interactively.

```azstatic-cli
swa init
```

#### Example 2: Create a new configuration using default values for all options.

```azstatic-cli
swa init --yes
```

#### Example 3: Initialize the project using the configuration named "myApp" from the swa-cli.config.json file.

```azstatic-cli
swa init --config-name myApp
```

### Parameters

___`--yes, -y`___

Answers "yes" to all prompts, which disables interactive mode. Default is `false`.

___[Global Parameters](#global-parameters)___

## swa build

Builds the application. If you have a Node.js application, it installs dependencies first.

Common use cases include: Installing dependencies for the front-end app and API and running the build commands for both, only building the front-end or API project if the other doesn't have a build step.

### Syntax

```azstatic-cli
swa build
          [--app-location]
          [--api-location]
          [--output-location]
          [--app-build-command]
          [--api-build-command]
          [--auto]
```

### Examples

#### Example 1: Build the app, and optionally install dependencies.

```azstatic-cli
swa build
```

#### Example 2: Detect how to build your app and run build commands after installing dependencies.

```azstatic-cli
swa build --auto
```

#### Example 3: Install dependencies for the front-end application.

```azstatic-cli
swa build --app-location ./client
```

#### Example 4: Use the configuration named `myApp` in *swa-cli.config.json* to build your front-end application.

```azstatic-cli
swa build myApp
```

### Parameters

___`--app-location, -a`___

The folder containing the source code of the front-end application. Default is `.`.

___`--api-location, -i`___

The folder containing the source code of the API application.

___`--output-location, -O`___

The folder containing the built source of the front-end application. This path is relative to `--app-location`. Default is `.`.

___`--app-build-command, -A`___

Builds the front-end application.

___`--api-build-command, -I`___

Builds the API application.

___`--auto`___

Automatically detects how to build your front-end and API applications. Default is `false`.

___[Global Parameters](#global-parameters)___

## swa start

Start the Azure Static Web Apps emulator from a directory or bind to a running dev server.

### Serve from a folder

By default, the CLI starts and serves any static content from the current working directory `./`:

```azstatic-cli
swa start
```

If the artifact folder of your static app is under a different folder (for example, `./my-dist`), then run the CLI and provide that folder:

```azstatic-cli
swa start ./my-dist
```

### Serve from a dev server

When developing your front-end app locally, it's often useful to use the dev server that comes with your front end framework's CLI. Using the framework CLI allows you to use built-in features like "livereload" and HMR (hot module replacement).

To use SWA CLI with your local dev server, follow these two steps:

1. Start your local dev server as usual. For example, if you are using Angular: `ng serve` (or `npm start`).

1. In a separate terminal, run `swa start` with the URI provided by the dev server, in the following format:

```azstatic-cli
swa start http://<APP_DEV_SERVER_HOST>:<APP_DEV_SERVER_PORT>
```

Here is a list of the default ports and commands used by some popular dev servers:

| Tool | Port | Command |
|--|--|--|
| [Angular](https://angular.io/cli) | `4200` | `swa start http://localhost:4200` |
| [Blazor WebAssembly](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/aspnet/web-apps/blazor) | `5000` | `swa start http://localhost:5000` |
| [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/gatsby-cli/) | `8000` | `swa start http://localhost:8000` |
| [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/commands/hugo_server/) | `1313` | `swa start http://localhost:1313` |
| [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) | `3000` | `swa start http://localhost:3000` |
| [React (Create React App)](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html) | `3000` | `swa start http://localhost:3000` |
| [Svelte (sirv-cli)](https://github.com/lukeed/sirv/tree/master/packages/sirv-cli/) | `5000` | `swa start http://localhost:5000` |
| [Vue](https://github.com/vuejs/create-vue) | `3000` | `swa start http://localhost:3000` |

Instead of starting a dev server separately, you can provide the startup command to the CLI.

```azstatic-cli
# npm start script (React)
swa start http://localhost:3000 --run "npm start"

# dotnet watch (Blazor)
swa start http://localhost:5000 --run "dotnet watch run"

# Jekyll
swa start http://localhost:4000 --run "jekyll serve"

# custom script
swa start http://localhost:4200 --run "./startup.sh"
```

Then access the application with the emulated services from `http://localhost:4280`

### Serve both the front-end app and API

If your project includes API functions, the CLI checks if the Azure Functions Core Tools are installed and available. If not, the CLI downloads and install the right version of the Azure Functions Core Tools.

#### Start the API server automatically

Run the CLI and provide the folder that contains the API backend (a valid Azure Functions App project):

```azstatic-cli
# static content plus an API
swa start ./my-dist --api-location ./api

# front-end dev server plus an API
swa start http://localhost:3000 --api-location ./api
```

#### Start API server manually

When developing your backend locally, sometimes it's useful to run Azure Functions Core Tools separately to serve your API. This allows you to use built-in features like debugging and rich editor support.

To use the CLI with your local API backend dev server, follow these two steps:

1. Start your API using Azure Functions Core Tools: `func host start` or start debugging in VS Code.

2. In a separate terminal, run the SWA CLI with the `--api-location` flag and the URI of the local API server, in the following format:

```azstatic-cli
swa start ./my-dist --api-location http://localhost:7071
```

#### Database connections

To start your application with a [database connection](database-overview.md), use the `--data-api-location` parameter and point to the folder containing the _staticwebapp.database.config.json_ file.

```azstatic-cli
swa start ./src --data-api-location swa-db-connections
```

### Syntax

```azstatic-cli
swa start
```

### Examples

#### Example 1: Start the application with defaults.

```azstatic-cli
swa start
```

#### Example 2: Start the application with a front end dev server.

```azstatic-cli
swa start http://<APP_DEV_SERVER_HOST>:<APP_DEV_SERVER_PORT>
```

#### Example 3: Start the application with a front end and back end dev server.

```azstatic-cli
swa start http://<APP_DEV_SERVER_HOST>:<APP_DEV_SERVER_PORT> --api-location http://localhost:7071
```

### Parameters

___`--app-location, -a <PATH>`___

The folder containing the source code of the front end application. Default is `.`.

___`--api-location, -i <PATH>`___

The folder containing the source code of the API application.

___`--output-location, -O <PATH>`___

The folder containing the built source of the front end application. The path is relative to `--app-location`. Default is `.`.

___`--data-api-location`___

The folder containing the *staticwebapp.database.config.json* file.

___`--app-devserver-url, -D <URL>`___

Connect to the app dev server at this URL instead of using output location.

___`--api-devserver-url, -is <URL>`___

Connect to the API server at this URL instead of using output location.

___`--api-port, -j <API_PORT>`___

The API server port passed to `func start`. Default is 7071.

___`--host, -q <HOST>`___

The host address used for the CLI dev server. Default is `localhost`.

___`--port, -p <PORT>`___

The port value to use for the CLI dev server. Default `4280`.

___`--ssl, -s`___

Serve the front end application and API over HTTPS. Default is `false`.

___`--ssl-cert, -e <SSL_CERT_LOCATION>`___

The SSL certificate (.crt) used when enabling HTTPS.

___`--ssl-key, -k <SSL_KEY_LOCATION>`___

The SSL key (.key) used when enabling HTTPS.

___`--run, -r <STARTUP_SCRIPT>`___

Location of a custom shell command or script file to run at startup.

___`--devserver-timeout, -t <TIME>`___

The amount of time to wait (in seconds) when connecting to a front end application's dev server or an API server. Default is 60.

___`--swa-config-location, -w <SWA_CONFIG_FILE_LOCATION>`___

The directory location of the `staticwebapp.config.json` file.

___`--open, -o`___

Open the browser to the dev server. Default is false.

___`--func-args, -f <FUNCTION_ARGUMENTS>`___

Pass additional arguments to the `func start` command.

___[Global Parameters](#global-parameters)___

## swa deploy

Deploy the current project to Azure Static Web Apps.

Common use cases include:

1. Deploy a front end app without an API

1. Deploy a front end app with an API

1. Deploy a Blazor app

### Deployment token

The SWA CLI supports deploying using a deployment token. This is often useful when deploying from a CI/CD environment. You can get a deployment token either from:

- The [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/): **Home → Static Web App → Your Instance → Overview → Manage deployment token**

- If you are using the [Azure CLI](https://aka.ms/azcli), you can get the deployment token of your project using the following command:

```azstatic-cli
az staticwebapp secrets list --name <APPLICATION_NAME> --query "properties.apiKey"
```

- If you are using the Azure Static Web Apps CLI, you can use the following command:

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy --print-token
```

You can then use that value with the `--deployment-token <TOKEN>` or you can create an environment variable called `SWA_CLI_DEPLOYMENT_TOKEN` and set it to the deployment token.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Don't store the deployment token in a public repository. This value must remain a secret.

### Deploy a front end app without an API

You can deploy a front end application without an API to Azure Static Web Apps by running the following steps:

1. If your front-end application requires a build step, run `swa build` or refer to your application build instructions.

**Option 1:** From build folder you would like to deploy, run the deploy command:

```azstatic-cli
cd build/
swa deploy
```

> [!NOTE]
> The `build` folder must contain the static content of your app that you want to deploy.

**Option 2:** You can also deploy a specific folder:

1. If your front end application requires a build step, run `swa build` or refer to your application build instructions.

2. Deploy your app:

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy ./my-dist
```

### Deploy a front-end app with an API

To deploy both the front end app and an API to Azure Static Web Apps, use the following steps:

1. If your front end application requires a build step, run `swa build` or refer to your application build instructions.

2. Make sure the API language runtime version in the `staticwebapp.config.json` file is set correctly, for example:

```json
{
  "platform": {
    "apiRuntime": "node:16"
  }
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> If your project doesn't have any `staticwebapp.config.json` file, add one under your `outputLocation` folder.

3. Deploy your app:

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy ./my-dist --api-location ./api
```

### Deploy a Blazor app

To deploy a Blazor app with an optional API to Azure Static Web Apps, use the following steps:

1. Build your Blazor app in **Release** mode:

```azstatic-cli
dotnet publish -c Release -o bin/publish
```

2. From the root of your project, run the `deploy` command:

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy ./bin/publish/wwwroot --api-location ./Api
```

### Deploy using the `swa-cli.config.json`

> [!NOTE]
> The path for `outputLocation` must be relative to the `appLocation`.

If you are using a `swa-cli.config.json` configuration file in your project and have a single configuration entry, use a configuration like this:

```json
{
  "configurations": {
    "my-app": {
      "appLocation": "./",
      "apiLocation": "api",
      "outputLocation": "frontend",
      "start": {
        "outputLocation": "frontend"
      },
      "deploy": {
        "outputLocation": "frontend"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Then you can deploy your application by running the following steps:

1. If your front-end application requires a build step, run `swa build` or refer to your application build instructions.

2. Deploy your app:

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy
```

If you have multiple configuration entries, you can provide the entry ID to specify which one to use:

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy my-otherapp
```

### Syntax

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy
           [--yes]
```

### Examples

#### Example 1: Deploy using a deployment token.

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy ./dist/ --api-location ./api/ --deployment-token <TOKEN>
```

#### Example 2: Deploy using a deployment token from the environment variables

```azstatic-cli
SWA_CLI_DEPLOYMENT_TOKEN=123 swa deploy ./dist/ --api-location ./api/
```

#### Example 3: Deploy using `swa-cli.config.json` file

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy
swa deploy myconfig
```

#### Example 4: Print the deployment token

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy --print-token
```

#### Example 5: Deploy to a specific environment

```azstatic-cli
swa deploy --env production
```

___[Global Parameters](#global-parameters)___

## swa db

Generate and edit your Static Web Apps database connections configuration.

Use `swa db init` to generate a sample _swa-db-connections_ folder, along with a `staticwebapp.database.config.json` configuration file. If you are using a Cosmos DB for NoSQL database, this also generates a sample `staticwebapp.database.schema.gql` schema file.

### Syntax

```azstatic-cli
swa db init --database-type <DATABASE_TYPE>
```

### Examples

#### Example 1: Generate a sample database connection configuration folder for an Azure SQL database.

```azstatic-cli
swa db init --database-type mssql
```

### Parameters

___`--database-type, -t <DATABASE_TYPE>`___

(Required) The type of the database you want to connect (mssql, postgresql, cosmosdb_nosql, mysql).

___`--folder-name, -f <FOLDER_NAME>`___

A folder name to override the convention database connection configuration folder name (ensure that you update your CI/CD workflow files accordingly). The default value is `swa-db-connections`.

___`---connection-string, -cs <CONNECTION_STRING>`___

The connection string of the database you want to connect.

___`--cosmosdb_nosql-database, -nd <COSMOSDB_NOSQL_DATABASE>`___

The database of your Cosmos DB account you want to connect (only needed if using `cosmosdb_nosql` database type).

___`--cosmosdb_nosql-container, -nc <COSMOSDB_NOSQL_CONTAINER>`___

The container of your Cosmos DB account you want to connect.

___`--help, -h`___

Display help for command.

___[Global Parameters](#global-parameters)___
