---
title: "Azure Kubernetes Fleet Manager scheduler and scheduling framework"
description: This article provides a conceptual overview of the Azure Kubernetes Fleet Manager scheduler and scheduling framework.
ms.date: 04/01/2024
author: schaffererin
ms.author: schaffererin
ms.service: kubernetes-fleet
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Azure Kubernetes Fleet Manager scheduler and scheduling framework

This article provides a conceptual overview of the scheduler and scheduling framework in Azure Kubernetes Fleet Manager (Fleet).

## What is the scheduler?

The scheduler is a core component in the fleet workload with the primary responsibility of determining scheduling decisions for a bundle of resources based on the latest `ClusterSchedulingPolicySnapshot` generated by the [`ClusterResourcePlacement`](./concepts-resource-propagation.md).

By default, the scheduler operates in *batch mode*, which enhances performance. In this mode, it binds a `ClusterResourceBinding` from a `ClusterResourcePlacement` to multiple clusters whenever possible.

### Batch mode

Scheduling resources within a `ClusterResourcePlacement` involves more dependencies compared to scheduling pods within a Kubernetes Deployment. There are two notable distinctions:

* In a `ClusterResourcePlacement`, multiple replicas of resources can't be scheduled on the same cluster.
* The `ClusterResourcePlacement` supports different placement types within a single object.

For more information, see [the upstream Fleet Scheduler documentation](https://github.com/Azure/fleet/blob/main/docs/concepts/Scheduler/README.md).

## What is the scheduling framework?

The fleet scheduling framework closely aligns with the native [Kubernetes scheduling framework](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/), incorporating several modifications and tailored functionalities to support the fleet workload.

:::image type="content" source="./media/concepts-scheduler-scheduling-framework/scheduling-framework.png" alt-text="This screenshot shows an overview diagram of the fleet scheduling framework.":::

The primary advantage of this framework is its capability to compile plugins directly into the scheduler. Its API facilitates the implementation of diverse scheduling features as plugins, ensuring a lightweight and maintainable core.

The fleet scheduler integrates the following fundamental built-in plugins:

* **Topology spread plugin**: Supports the `TopologySpreadConstraints` in the placement policy.
* **Cluster affinity plugin**: Facilitates the affinity clause in the placement policy.
* **Same placement affinity plugin**: Designed specifically for fleet and prevents multiple replicas from being placed within the same cluster.
* **Cluster eligibility plugin**: Enables cluster selection based on specific status criteria.
* **Taint & toleration plugin**: Enables cluster selection based on [taints on the cluster](./concepts-fleet.md#taints) and [tolerations on the `ClusterResourcePlacement`](./concepts-resource-propagation.md#tolerations).

For more information, see the [upstream Fleet Scheduling Framework documentation](https://github.com/Azure/fleet/blob/main/docs/concepts/Scheduling-Framework/README.md).

## Next steps

* [Create a fleet and join member clusters](./quickstart-create-fleet-and-members.md).
