---
title: "Visualization and reporting for Oracle migrations"
description: Learn about Microsoft and third-party BI tools for reports and visualizations in Azure Synapse Analytics compared to Oracle.
ms.service: synapse-analytics
ms.subservice: sql-dw
ms.custom:
ms.devlang:
ms.topic: conceptual
author: ajagadish-24
ms.author: ajagadish
ms.reviewer: wiassaf
ms.date: 06/30/2022
---

# Visualization and reporting for Oracle migrations

This article is part four of a seven-part series that provides guidance on how to migrate from Oracle to Azure Synapse Analytics. The focus of this article is best practices for visualization and reporting.

## Access Azure Synapse Analytics using Microsoft and third-party BI tools

Almost every organization accesses data warehouses and data marts using a range of business intelligence (BI) tools and applications. Examples of BI products are:

- Microsoft BI tools, such as Power BI.

- Office applications, such as Microsoft Excel spreadsheets.

- Third-party BI tools from different vendors.

- Custom analytics applications that have embedded BI tool functionality inside the application.

- Operational applications that request BI on demand by invoking queries and reports as a service on a BI platform, which in turn queries data in the data warehouse or data marts that are being migrated.

- Interactive data science development tools, such as Azure Synapse Spark Notebooks, Azure Machine Learning, RStudio, and Jupyter Notebooks.

When visualization and reporting are migrated as part of a data warehouse migration program, all existing queries, reports, and dashboards generated by these products need to run on Azure Synapse. And, those products must yield the same results on Azure Synapse as they did in the original data warehouse prior to migration.

For consistent results after migration, everything that BI tools and applications depend on still needs to work once you migrate your data warehouse schema and data to Azure Synapse. That also includes the less visible aspects, such as access and security. Access and security are important considerations for data access in the migrated system, and are discussed in another [guide](3-security-access-operations.md) in this series. When you address access and security, ensure that:

- Authentication is migrated so users can sign in to the data warehouse and data mart databases on Azure Synapse.

- All users are migrated to Azure Synapse.

- All user groups are migrated to Azure Synapse.

- All roles are migrated to Azure Synapse.

- All authorization privileges governing access control are migrated to Azure Synapse.

- User, role, and privilege assignments are migrated to mirror what you had in your existing data warehouse before migration. For example:
  - Database object privileges assigned to roles
  - Roles assigned to user groups
  - Users assigned to user groups and/or roles

> [!TIP]
> Existing users, user groups, roles, and assignments of access security privileges need to be migrated first for migration of reports and visualizations to succeed.

In addition, migrate all required data to ensure the same results appear in the same reports and dashboards that query data on Azure Synapse. Users will expect a seamless migration, with no surprises that destroy their confidence in the migrated system on Azure Synapse. You should take extreme care and communicate as much as possible to allay any fears that your users may have. Their expectations are that:

- Table structure will be the same when directly referred to in queries.

- Table and column names remain the same when directly referred to in queries. For instance, calculated fields defined on columns in BI tools shouldn't fail when aggregate reports are produced.

- Historical analysis remains the same.

- Data types should, if possible, remain the same.

- Query behavior remains the same.

- ODBC/JDBC drivers are tested to ensure that query behavior hasn't changed.

> [!TIP]
> Communication and business user involvement are critical to success.

If BI tools query views in the underlying data warehouse or data mart database, then will the views still work? You might think yes, but there could be proprietary SQL extensions specific to your legacy data warehouse DBMS that have no equivalent in Azure Synapse. If so, you need to know about those incompatibilities and find a way to resolve them.

> [!TIP]
> Views and SQL queries using proprietary SQL query extensions are likely to result in incompatibilities that impact BI reports and dashboards.

Other issues, like the behavior of nulls or data type variations across DBMS platforms, need to be tested in case they cause slightly different calculation results. Obviously, you want to minimize these issues and take all necessary steps to shield business users from being affected. There are [third-party](../../partner/data-integration.md) tools that can help hide these differences, so that BI tools and applications remain unaware of them and can run unchanged.

Testing is critical to visualization and report migration. You need a test suite and agreed-on test data to run and rerun tests in both environments. A test harness is also useful, and a few are mentioned in this guide. In addition, it's important to involve business users in this area of migration to keep confidence high and to keep them engaged and part of the project.

> [!TIP]
> Use repeatable tests to ensure reports, dashboards, and other visualizations migrate successfully.

Finally, you may also be thinking about switching BI tools. For example, you might want to [migrate to Power BI](/power-bi/guidance/powerbi-migration-overview). The temptation is to make all of these changes at the same time, while migrating your schema, data, ETL processing, and more. However, to minimize risk, it's better to migrate to Azure Synapse first and get everything working before undertaking further modernization.

If your existing BI tools run on-premises, ensure they can connect to Azure Synapse through your firewall so you can run comparisons against both environments. Alternatively, if the vendor of your existing BI tools offers their product on Azure, you can try it there. The same applies for applications running on-premises that embed BI or that call your BI server on demand, for example by requesting a "headless report" with XML or JSON data.

There's a lot to think about here, so let's take a closer look.

## Use data virtualization to minimize the impact of migration on BI tools and reports

During migration, you may be tempted to make other changes in order to fulfill long-term requirements like opening business requests, adding missing data, and implementing new features. However, such changes can affect BI tool access to your data warehouse, especially if the change involves structural changes in your data model. If you want to adopt an agile data modeling technique or implement structural changes, do so *after* migration.

One way in which you can minimize the impact of things like schema changes on BI tools is to introduce data virtualization between BI tools and your data warehouse and data marts. The following diagram shows how data virtualization can hide the migration from users.

:::image type="content" source="../media/4-visualization-reporting/migration-data-virtualization.png" border="true" alt-text="Diagram showing how to hide the migration from users through data virtualization.":::

Data virtualization breaks the dependency between business users utilizing self-service BI tools and the physical schema of the underlying data warehouse and data marts that are being migrated.

> [!TIP]
> Data virtualization allows you to shield business users from structural changes during migration so they remain unaware of those changes. Structural changes include schema alterations that tune your data model for Azure Synapse.

With data virtualization, any schema alterations made during a migration to Azure Synapse, for example to optimize performance, can be hidden from business users because they only have access to virtual tables in the data virtualization layer. If you have data virtualization and you make structural changes, you only need to update the mappings between the data warehouse or data marts and any virtual tables. That way, users remain unaware of the structural changes. [Microsoft partners](../../partner/data-integration.md) provide useful data virtualization software.

## Identify high-priority reports to migrate first

A key question when migrating your existing reports and dashboards to Azure Synapse is which ones to migrate first. Several factors can drive the decision, such as:

- Business value

- Usage

- Ease of migration

- Data migration strategy

These factors are discussed in another [guide](1-design-performance-migration#choose-the-workload-for-the-initial-migration) in the series.

Whatever your decision, it must involve your business users. They produce the reports and dashboards, and make business decisions based on the insights provided by those artifacts. That said, if most reports and dashboards can be migrated seamlessly, with minimal effort, and offer up like-for-like results, simply by pointing your BI tool(s) at Azure Synapse instead of your legacy data warehouse system, then everyone benefits.

### Migrate reports based on usage

Usage is often an indicator of business value. Reports and dashboards that are never used clearly don't contribute to supporting any decisions and don't currently offer any value. So, do you have any mechanism for finding out which reports and dashboards are currently not used? Several BI tools provide statistics on usage, which would be an obvious place to start.

If your legacy data warehouse has been up and running for many years, there's a high chance you could have hundreds, if not thousands, of reports in existence. It's worth compiling an inventory of the reports and dashboards you have and defining their business purpose and usage statistics.

For reports that aren't used at all, it's an appropriate time to determine whether to decommission them to optimize your migration efforts. A key question worth asking when deciding to decommission unused reports is: are they unused because people don't know they exist, because they offer no business value, or have they been superseded by others?

### Migrate reports based on business value

Sometimes usage alone isn't a good indicator of business value. Deeper context may be necessary to determine a report's value to the business. In an ideal world, we'd like to know how insights produced in a report contributed to the bottom line. Measuring contributions is difficult since every decision made, and its dependency on the insights in a specific report, would need to be recorded along with the contribution that each decision makes to the bottom line. You would also need to do this assessment over time.

This level of detail is unlikely to be available in most organizations. One way in which you can get deeper understanding of business value to drive migration order is to look at alignment with business strategy. A business strategy set by your executive typically lays out strategic business objectives, key performance indicators (KPIs), KPI targets that need to be achieved, and who is accountable for achieving them. In that sense, classifying your reports and dashboards by strategic business objectives&mdash;for example, to reduce fraud, improve customer engagement, and optimize business operations&mdash;will help understand business purpose and show what objective(s), specific reports, and dashboards are affected. Reports and dashboards associated with high-priority objectives can then be highlighted so that migration is focused on delivering business value in a strategic area.

It's also worthwhile to classify reports and dashboards as operational, tactical, or strategic, to understand the level in the business where they're used. Delivering strategic business objectives requires contribution at all these levels. Knowing which reports and dashboards are used, at what level, and what objectives they're associated with, helps to focus migration on high-priority business value that will drive the company forward. This **business strategy objective** table shows how reports and dashboards can be evaluated.

| **Level** | **Report / dashboard name** | **Business purpose** | **Department used** | **Usage frequency** | **Business priority** |
|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| **Strategic**    | | | | | | 
| **Tactical**     | | | | | |  
| **Operational**  | | | | | |

While time consuming, you need a mechanism to understand the contribution of reports and dashboards to business value, whether you're migrating or not. Catalogs like Azure Data Catalog are important because they give you the ability to catalog reports and dashboards, automatically capture the metadata associated with them, and let business users tag and rate them to help you understand business value.

### Migrate reports based on data migration strategy

If your migration strategy is based on migrating data marts first, the order of data mart migration will have a bearing on which reports and dashboards can be migrated first to run on Azure Synapse. Again, this decision is likely related to business value. Prioritizing which data marts are migrated first reflects business priorities. Metadata discovery tools can help you here by showing which reports rely on data in which data mart tables.

> [!TIP]
> Data migration strategy could also dictate which reports and visualizations get migrated first.

## Migration incompatibility issues that can impact reports and visualizations

When it comes to migrating to Azure Synapse, several things can impact the ease of migration for reports, dashboards, and other visualizations. The ease of migration is affected by:

- Incompatibilities that occur during schema migration between your legacy data warehouse and Azure Synapse.

- Incompatibilities in SQL between your legacy data warehouse and Azure Synapse.

### The impact of schema incompatibilities

BI tool reports and dashboards, and other visualizations, are produced by issuing SQL queries that access physical tables and/or views in your data warehouse or data mart. When it comes to migrating your data warehouse or data mart schema to Azure Synapse, there may be incompatibilities that can impact reports and dashboards, such as:

- Non-standard table types supported in your legacy data warehouse DBMS that don't have an equivalent in Azure Synapse.

- Data types supported in your legacy data warehouse DBMS that don't have an equivalent in Azure Synapse.

> [!TIP]
> Schema incompatibilities include legacy warehouse DBMS table types and data types that are unsupported on Azure Synapse.

In many cases, where there are incompatibilities, there may be ways around them. For example, the data in unsupported table types can be migrated into a standard table with appropriate data types and indexed or partitioned on a date/time column. Similarly, it may be possible to represent unsupported data types in another type of column and perform calculations in Azure Synapse to achieve the same. Either way, it will need refactoring.

> [!TIP]
> Querying the system catalog of your legacy warehouse DBMS is a quick and straightforward way to identify schema incompatibilities with Azure Synapse.

To identify reports and visualizations impacted by schema incompatibilities, run queries against the system catalog of your legacy data warehouse to identify tables with unsupported data types. Then use metadata from your BI tool or tools to identify reports that access these structures, to see what could be impacted. Obviously, the result will depend on the legacy data warehouse DBMS you're migrating from. Find details of how to identify these incompatibilities in [Design and performance for Oracle migrations](1-design-performance-migration.md).

The impact may be less than you think, because many BI tools don't support such data types. As a result, views may already exist in your legacy data warehouse that `CAST` unsupported data types to more generic types.

### The impact of SQL incompatibilities and differences

Additionally, migrating to Azure Synapse is likely to impact any report, dashboard, or other visualization in an application or tool that makes use of proprietary SQL extensions associated with legacy data warehouse DBMS. This result could happen because the BI tool or application:

- Accesses legacy data warehouse DBMS views that include proprietary SQL functions that have no equivalent in Azure Synapse.

- Issues SQL queries that have no equivalent in Azure Synapse, including proprietary SQL functions peculiar to the SQL dialect of your legacy data warehouse DBMS.

### Gauge the impact of SQL incompatibilities on your reporting portfolio

You can't rely on documentation associated with reports, dashboards, and other visualizations to gauge how big of an impact SQL incompatibility may have on the portfolio of embedded query services, reports, dashboards, and other visualizations that are migrating to Azure Synapse. You need to use a more precise way to assess SQL incompatibilities.

#### Use EXPLAIN statements to find SQL incompatibilities

One way to assess SQL incompatibilities is by viewing recent SQL activity in your legacy Oracle data warehouse. <!-- need Oracle-specific content here -->

Metadata from your legacy data warehouse DBMS will also help you when it comes to views. Again, you can capture and view SQL statements, and `EXPLAIN` them as described previously to identify incompatible SQL in views.

> [!TIP]
> Gauge the impact of SQL incompatibilities by harvesting your DBMS log files and running `EXPLAIN` statements.

## Test report and dashboard migration to Azure Synapse Analytics

A key element in data warehouse migration is the testing of reports and dashboards against Azure Synapse to verify that the migration has worked. You need to define a series of tests and a set of required outcomes for each test that needs to be run to verify success. Test and compare reports and dashboards across your existing and migrated data warehouse systems to:

- Identify whether schema changes made during migration, such as data types to be converted, impact any reports in terms of ability to run results and corresponding visualizations.

- Verify all users are migrated.

- Verify all roles are migrated and users assigned to those roles.

- Verify all data access security privileges are migrated to ensure access control list (ACL) migration.

- Ensure consistent results of all known queries, reports, and dashboards.

- Ensure that data and ETL migration is complete and error-free.

- Ensure data privacy is upheld.

- Test performance and scalability.

- Test analytical functionality.

> [!TIP]
> Test performance and tune to minimize compute costs.

For information about how to migrate users, user groups, roles, and privileges, see [Security, access, and operations for Oracle migrations](3-security-access-operations.md), which is part of this series.

> [!TIP]
> Build an automated test suite to make tests repeatable.

It's also best practice to automate testing as much as possible, to make each test repeatable, and to allow a consistent approach to evaluating results. Automation works well for known regular reports, and can be managed via [Azure Synapse Pipelines](../../get-started-pipelines.md?msclkid=8f3e7e96cfed11eca432022bc07c18de) or [Azure Data Factory](../../../data-factory/introduction.md?msclkid=2ccc66eccfde11ecaa58877e9d228779) orchestration. If you already have a suite of test queries in place for regression testing, you could use the testing tools to automate the post migration testing.

> [!TIP]
> Leverage tools that can compare metadata lineage to verify results.

Ad-hoc analysis and reporting are more challenging and require a set of tests to be compiled to verify that results are consistent before and after migration. If reports and dashboards are inconsistent, then the ability to compare metadata lineage across original and migrated systems is extremely valuable during migration testing, as it can highlight differences and pinpoint where they occurred when detection is difficult.

## Analyze lineage to understand dependencies between reports, dashboards, and data

A critical success factor in migrating reports and dashboards is understanding lineage. Lineage is metadata that shows the journey that data has taken, so you can see the path from the report/dashboard all the way back to where the data originated. It shows how data has gone from point to point, its location in the data warehouse and/or data mart, and where it's used&mdash;for example, in what reports. It helps you understand what happens to data as it travels through different data stores&mdash;files and database&mdash;different ETL pipelines, and into reports. If business users have access to data lineage, it improves trust, breeds confidence, and enables more informed business decisions.

> [!TIP]
> Having access to metadata and data lineage from reports all the way back to data source is critical for verifying that migrated reports are working correctly.

In multi-vendor data warehouse environments, business analysts in BI teams may map out data lineage. For example, if you use different vendors for your ETL, your data warehouse, and for reporting, each with its own metadata repository, figuring out where a specific data element in a report came from can be challenging and time consuming.

> [!TIP]
> Tools that automate metadata collection and show end-to-end lineage in a multi-vendor environment are valuable when it comes to migration.

To migrate seamlessly from a legacy data warehouse to Azure Synapse, end-to-end data lineage helps prove like-for-like migration when comparing reports and dashboards against your legacy environment. That means that metadata from several tools needs to be captured and integrated to show the end-to-end journey. Having access to tools that support automated metadata discovery and data lineage will let you see duplicate reports and ETL processes, and identify reports that rely on data sources that are obsolete, questionable, or even non-existent. With this information, you can reduce the number of reports and ETL processes that you migrate.

You can also compare end-to-end lineage of a report in Azure Synapse against the end-to-end lineage for the same report in your legacy data warehouse environment, to see if there are any differences that have occurred inadvertently during migration. This comparison helps enormously with testing and verifying migration success.

Data lineage visualization not only reduces time, effort, and error in the migration process, but also enables faster migration.

By using automated metadata discovery and data lineage tools that can compare lineage, you can verify if a report is produced using data migrated to Azure Synapse and if it's produced in the same way as in your legacy environment. This capability also helps you determine:

- What data needs to be migrated to ensure successful report and dashboard execution on Azure Synapse.

- What transformations have been and should be performed to ensure successful execution on Azure Synapse.

- How to reduce report duplication.

The data migration process is greatly simplified because the business will have a better idea of the data assets it has and what needs to be migrated to enable a solid reporting environment on Azure Synapse.

> [!TIP]
> Azure Data Factory and several third-party ETL tools support lineage.

Several ETL tools provide end-to-end lineage capability, and you may be able to make use of lineage via your existing ETL tool if you're continuing to use it with Azure Synapse. [Azure Synapse Pipelines](../../get-started-pipelines.md?msclkid=8f3e7e96cfed11eca432022bc07c18de) or [Azure Data Factory](../../../data-factory/introduction.md?msclkid=2ccc66eccfde11ecaa58877e9d228779) lets you view lineage in mapping flows. Also, [Microsoft partners](../../partner/data-integration.md) provide automated metadata discovery, data lineage, and lineage comparison tools.

## Migrate BI tool semantic layers to Azure Synapse Analytics

Some BI tools have what is known as a semantic metadata layer. The role of this metadata layer is to simplify business user access to physical data structures in an underlying data warehouse or data mart database. It provides high-level objects like dimensions, measures, hierarchies, calculated metrics, and joins. These objects use business terms familiar to business analysts and are mapped to the physical data structures in the data warehouse or data mart database.

> [!TIP]
> Some BI tools have semantic layers that simplify business user access to physical data structures in your data warehouse or data mart.

When it comes to data warehouse migration, changes to column names or table names may be forced upon you. For example, in Oracle, table names can have a "#". In Azure Synapse, the "#" is only allowed as a prefix to a table name to indicate a temporary table. Therefore, you may need to change table names if migrating from Oracle. You may need to do rework to change mappings in such cases.

A good way to achieve consistency across multiple BI tools is to create a universal semantic layer. Use common data names for high-level objects like dimensions, measures, hierarchies, and joins, in a data virtualization server that sits between applications, BI tools, and Azure Synapse. You can set up everything once, instead of in every tool, including calculated fields, joins, and mappings, and then point all BI tools at the data virtualization server.

> [!TIP]
> Use data virtualization to create a common semantic layer to guarantee consistency across all BI tools in an Azure Synapse environment.

You get consistency across all BI tools, while at the same time breaking the dependency between BI tools and applications and the underlying physical data structures in Azure Synapse. Use [Microsoft partners](../../partner/data-integration.md) on Azure to implement this consistency. The following diagram shows how a common vocabulary in the data virtualization server lets multiple BI tools see a common semantic layer.

:::image type="content" source="../media/4-visualization-reporting/data-virtualization-semantics.png" border="true" alt-text="Diagram with common data names and definitions that relate to the data virtualization server.":::

## Conclusions

In a lift-and-shift data warehouse migration to Azure Synapse, most reports and dashboards should migrate easily.

> [!TIP]
> A lift-and-shift data warehouse migration is likely to minimize any disruption to reports, dashboards, and other visualizations.

However, if data structures change, then data is stored in unsupported data types, or access to data in the data warehouse or data mart is via a view that includes proprietary SQL that's not supported in your Azure Synapse environment. You'll need to deal with those issues if they arise.

You can't rely on documentation to find out where the issues are located. Making use of `EXPLAIN` statements is a pragmatic and quick way to identify incompatibilities in SQL. Rework these statements to achieve similar results in Azure Synapse. In addition, it's recommended that you make use of automated metadata discovery and lineage tools to help you identify duplicate reports, reports that are no longer valid because they use data from sources that you no longer use, and to understand dependencies. Some of these tools help compare lineage to verify that reports running in your legacy data warehouse environment are produced identically in Azure Synapse.

Don't migrate reports that you no longer use. BI tool usage data can help determine which ones aren't in use. For the visualizations and reports that you do want to migrate, migrate all users, user groups, roles, and privileges, and associate these reports with strategic business objectives and priorities to help you identify report insight contribution to specific objectives. Understanding the contributions of reports is useful if you're using business value to drive your report migration strategy. If you're migrating by data store, data mart by data mart, then metadata will also help you identify which reports are dependent on which tables and views, so that you understand what to migrate first.

Finally, consider data virtualization to shield BI tools and applications from structural changes to the data warehouse and/or the data mart data model that may occur during migration. You can also use a common vocabulary with data virtualization to define a common semantic layer that guarantees consistent common data names, definitions, metrics, hierarchies, joins, and more across all BI tools and applications in a migrated Azure Synapse environment.

> [!TIP]
> Identify incompatibilities early to gauge the extent of the migration effort. Migrate your users, group roles, and privilege assignments. Only migrate the reports and visualizations that are used and are contributing to business value.

## Next steps

To learn more about minimizing SQL issues, see the next article in this series: [Minimizing SQL issues for Oracle migrations](5-minimize-sql-issues.md).
