articles/data-lake-store/TOC.md, before:

# Overview
## [Overview of Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-overview.md)
## [Compare Azure Data Lake Store with Azure Storage](data-lake-store-comparison-with-blob-storage.md)
## [Azure Data Lake Store for big data processing](data-lake-store-data-scenarios.md)
## [Open source applications working with Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-compatible-oss-other-applications.md)

# Get started
## [Using Portal](data-lake-store-get-started-portal.md)
## [Using PowerShell](data-lake-store-get-started-powershell.md)
## [Using Azure CLI 2.0](data-lake-store-get-started-cli-2.0.md)


# How to
## Load and move data
### [Using Azure Data Factory](../data-factory/data-factory-azure-datalake-connector.md)
### [Using AdlCopy](data-lake-store-copy-data-azure-storage-blob.md)
### [Using DistCp](data-lake-store-copy-data-wasb-distcp.md)
### [Using Sqoop](data-lake-store-data-transfer-sql-sqoop.md)
### [Upload data from offline sources](data-lake-store-offline-bulk-data-upload.md)
### [Migrate Azure Data Lake Store across regions](data-lake-store-migration-cross-region.md)

## Secure data
### [Security overview](data-lake-store-security-overview.md)
### [Access control in Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-access-control.md)
### [Secure data in Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-secure-data.md)
### [Encryption](data-lake-store-encryption.md)

## [Authenticate with Data Lake Store](data-lakes-store-authentication-using-azure-active-directory.md)
### [End-user authentication](data-lake-store-end-user-authenticate-using-active-directory.md)
#### [Using .NET SDK](data-lake-store-end-user-authenticate-net-sdk.md)
#### [Using REST API](data-lake-store-end-user-authenticate-rest-api.md)
#### [Using Python](data-lake-store-end-user-authenticate-python.md)
### [Service-to-service authentication](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-using-active-directory.md)
#### [Using Java](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-java.md)
#### [Using .NET SDK](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-net-sdk.md)
#### [Using REST API](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-rest-api.md)
#### [Using Python](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-python.md)

## Work with Data Lake Store
### Account manangement operations
#### [Using .NET SDK](data-lake-store-get-started-net-sdk.md)
#### [Using REST API](data-lake-store-get-started-rest-api.md)
#### [Using Python](data-lake-store-get-started-python.md)
### Filesystem operations
#### [Using .NET SDK](data-lake-store-data-operations-net-sdk.md)
#### [Using Java SDK](data-lake-store-get-started-java-sdk.md)
#### [Using REST API](data-lake-store-data-operations-rest-api.md)
#### [Using Python](data-lake-store-data-operations-python.md)

## Performance
### [Performance tuning guidance for Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-guidance.md)
### [Performance tuning guidance for Spark on HDInsight and Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-spark.md)
### [Performance tuning guidance for Hive on HDInsight and Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-hive.md)
### [Performance tuning guidance for MapReduce on HDInsight and Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-mapreduce.md)
### [Performance tuning guidance for Storm on HDInsight and Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-storm.md)

## Integrate with Azure Services
### With HDInsight
#### [Using Portal](data-lake-store-hdinsight-hadoop-use-portal.md)
#### [Using PowerShell (default storage)](data-lake-store-hdinsight-hadoop-use-powershell-for-default-storage.md)
#### [Using PowerShell (additonal storage)](data-lake-store-hdinsight-hadoop-use-powershell.md)
#### [Using Azure template](data-lake-store-hdinsight-hadoop-use-resource-manager-template.md)
### [Access from VMs in Azure VNET](data-lake-store-connectivity-from-vnets.md)
### [Use with Data Lake Analytics](../data-lake-analytics/data-lake-analytics-get-started-portal.md)
### [Use with Azure Event Hubs](data-lake-store-archive-eventhub-capture.md)
### [Use with Data Factory](../data-factory/data-factory-azure-datalake-connector.md)
### [Use with Stream Analytics](data-lake-store-stream-analytics.md)
### [Use with Power BI](data-lake-store-power-bi.md)
### [Use with Data Catalog](data-lake-store-with-data-catalog.md)
### [Use with PolyBase in SQL Data Warehouse](../sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-load-from-azure-data-lake-store.md)
### [Use with SQL Server Integration Services](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/integration-services/connection-manager/azure-data-lake-store-connection-manager)
### [More Azure integration options](data-lake-store-integrate-with-other-services.md)

## Manage
### [Access diagnostic logs](data-lake-store-diagnostic-logs.md)
### [Plan for high availability](data-lake-store-disaster-recovery-guidance.md)

# Reference
## [Code samples](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/samples/?service=data-lake-store)
## [PowerShell](/powershell/module/azurerm.datalakestore)
## [.NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/data-lake-store?view=azure-dotnet)
## [Java](/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.datalake.store)
## [Node.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/azure-arm-datalake-store)
## [Python (Account Mgmt.)](http://azure-sdk-for-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/sample_azure-mgmt-datalake-store.html)
## [Python (Filesystem Mgmt.)](http://azure-datalake-store.readthedocs.io/en/latest)
## [REST](/rest/api/datalakestore)
## [Azure CLI 2.0](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/dls)

# Resources
## [Azure Roadmap](https://azure.microsoft.com/roadmap/)
## [Data Lake Store Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/azuredatalake/)
## [Give feedback on UserVoice](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/327234-data-lake)
## [MSDN Forum](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/home?forum=AzureDataLake)
## [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/data-lake-store/)
## [Pricing calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)
## [Service updates](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates/?product=data-lake-store)
## [Stack Overflow Forum](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/azure-data-lake)
## [Videos](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/videos/index/?services=data-lake-store)

Commit message:

updates for ADLS with PowerShell

articles/data-lake-store/TOC.md, after:

# Overview
## [Overview of Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-overview.md)
## [Compare Azure Data Lake Store with Azure Storage](data-lake-store-comparison-with-blob-storage.md)
## [Azure Data Lake Store for big data processing](data-lake-store-data-scenarios.md)
## [Open source applications working with Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-compatible-oss-other-applications.md)

# Get started
## [Using Portal](data-lake-store-get-started-portal.md)
## [Using PowerShell](data-lake-store-get-started-powershell.md)
## [Using Azure CLI 2.0](data-lake-store-get-started-cli-2.0.md)


# How to
## Load and move data
### [Using Azure Data Factory](../data-factory/data-factory-azure-datalake-connector.md)
### [Using AdlCopy](data-lake-store-copy-data-azure-storage-blob.md)
### [Using DistCp](data-lake-store-copy-data-wasb-distcp.md)
### [Using Sqoop](data-lake-store-data-transfer-sql-sqoop.md)
### [Upload data from offline sources](data-lake-store-offline-bulk-data-upload.md)
### [Migrate Azure Data Lake Store across regions](data-lake-store-migration-cross-region.md)

## Secure data
### [Security overview](data-lake-store-security-overview.md)
### [Access control in Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-access-control.md)
### [Secure data in Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-secure-data.md)
### [Encryption](data-lake-store-encryption.md)

## [Authenticate with Data Lake Store](data-lakes-store-authentication-using-azure-active-directory.md)
### [End-user authentication](data-lake-store-end-user-authenticate-using-active-directory.md)
#### [Using .NET SDK](data-lake-store-end-user-authenticate-net-sdk.md)
#### [Using REST API](data-lake-store-end-user-authenticate-rest-api.md)
#### [Using Python](data-lake-store-end-user-authenticate-python.md)
### [Service-to-service authentication](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-using-active-directory.md)
#### [Using Java](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-java.md)
#### [Using .NET SDK](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-net-sdk.md)
#### [Using REST API](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-rest-api.md)
#### [Using Python](data-lake-store-service-to-service-authenticate-python.md)

## Work with Data Lake Store
### Account manangement operations
#### [Using .NET SDK](data-lake-store-get-started-net-sdk.md)
#### [Using REST API](data-lake-store-get-started-rest-api.md)
#### [Using Python](data-lake-store-get-started-python.md)
### Filesystem operations
#### [Using .NET SDK](data-lake-store-data-operations-net-sdk.md)
#### [Using Java SDK](data-lake-store-get-started-java-sdk.md)
#### [Using REST API](data-lake-store-data-operations-rest-api.md)
#### [Using Python](data-lake-store-data-operations-python.md)

## Performance
### [Performance tuning guidance for Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-guidance.md)
### [Performance tuning guidance for using PowerShell with Azure Data Lake Store](data-lakes-store-performance-tuning-powershell.md)
### [Performance tuning guidance for Spark on HDInsight and Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-spark.md)
### [Performance tuning guidance for Hive on HDInsight and Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-hive.md)
### [Performance tuning guidance for MapReduce on HDInsight and Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-mapreduce.md)
### [Performance tuning guidance for Storm on HDInsight and Azure Data Lake Store](data-lake-store-performance-tuning-storm.md)

## Integrate with Azure Services
### With HDInsight
#### [Using Portal](data-lake-store-hdinsight-hadoop-use-portal.md)
#### [Using PowerShell (default storage)](data-lake-store-hdinsight-hadoop-use-powershell-for-default-storage.md)
#### [Using PowerShell (additonal storage)](data-lake-store-hdinsight-hadoop-use-powershell.md)
#### [Using Azure template](data-lake-store-hdinsight-hadoop-use-resource-manager-template.md)
### [Access from VMs in Azure VNET](data-lake-store-connectivity-from-vnets.md)
### [Use with Data Lake Analytics](../data-lake-analytics/data-lake-analytics-get-started-portal.md)
### [Use with Azure Event Hubs](data-lake-store-archive-eventhub-capture.md)
### [Use with Data Factory](../data-factory/data-factory-azure-datalake-connector.md)
### [Use with Stream Analytics](data-lake-store-stream-analytics.md)
### [Use with Power BI](data-lake-store-power-bi.md)
### [Use with Data Catalog](data-lake-store-with-data-catalog.md)
### [Use with PolyBase in SQL Data Warehouse](../sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-load-from-azure-data-lake-store.md)
### [Use with SQL Server Integration Services](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/integration-services/connection-manager/azure-data-lake-store-connection-manager)
### [More Azure integration options](data-lake-store-integrate-with-other-services.md)

## Manage
### [Access diagnostic logs](data-lake-store-diagnostic-logs.md)
### [Plan for high availability](data-lake-store-disaster-recovery-guidance.md)

# Reference
## [Code samples](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/samples/?service=data-lake-store)
## [PowerShell](/powershell/module/azurerm.datalakestore)
## [.NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/data-lake-store?view=azure-dotnet)
## [Java](/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.datalake.store)
## [Node.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/azure-arm-datalake-store)
## [Python (Account Mgmt.)](http://azure-sdk-for-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/sample_azure-mgmt-datalake-store.html)
## [Python (Filesystem Mgmt.)](http://azure-datalake-store.readthedocs.io/en/latest)
## [REST](/rest/api/datalakestore)
## [Azure CLI 2.0](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/dls)

# Resources
## [Azure Roadmap](https://azure.microsoft.com/roadmap/)
## [Data Lake Store Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/azuredatalake/)
## [Give feedback on UserVoice](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/327234-data-lake)
## [MSDN Forum](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/home?forum=AzureDataLake)
## [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/data-lake-store/)
## [Pricing calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)
## [Service updates](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates/?product=data-lake-store)
## [Stack Overflow Forum](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/azure-data-lake)
## [Videos](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/videos/index/?services=data-lake-store)
