---
title: "Barracuda CloudGen Firewall connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector Barracuda CloudGen Firewall to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 04/26/2024
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
ms.collection: sentinel-data-connector
---

# Barracuda CloudGen Firewall connector for Microsoft Sentinel

The Barracuda CloudGen Firewall (CGFW) connector allows you to easily connect your Barracuda CGFW logs with Microsoft Sentinel, to view dashboards, create custom alerts, and improve investigation. This gives you more insight into your organization's network and improves your security operation capabilities.

This is autogenerated content. For changes, contact the solution provider.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | Syslog (Barracuda)<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | [Workspace transform DCR](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/tutorial-workspace-transformations-portal) |
| **Supported by** | [Community](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel/issues) |

## Query samples

**All logs**

   ```kusto
CGFWFirewallActivity
            
   | sort by TimeGenerated
   ```

**Top 10 Active Users (Last 24 Hours)**

   ```kusto
CGFWFirewallActivity
            
   | extend User = coalesce(User, "Unauthenticated") 
                    
   | summarize count() by User
                    
   | take 10
   ```

**Top 10 Applications (Last 24 Hours)**

   ```kusto
CGFWFirewallActivity
            
   | where isnotempty(Application)
                    
   | summarize count() by Application
                    
   | take 10
   ```



## Prerequisites

To integrate with Barracuda CloudGen Firewall make sure you have: 

- **Barracuda CloudGen Firewall**: must be configured to export logs via Syslog


## Vendor installation instructions


**NOTE:** This data connector depends on a parser based on a Kusto Function to work as expected which is deployed as part of the solution. To view the function code in Log Analytics, open Log Analytics/Microsoft Sentinel Logs blade, click Functions and search for the alias CGFWFirewallActivity and load the function code or click [here](https://aka.ms/sentinel-barracudacloudfirewall-parser). The function usually takes 10-15 minutes to activate after solution installation/update.

1. Install and onboard the agent for Linux

   Typically, you should install the agent on a different computer from the one on which the logs are generated.

   Syslog logs are collected only from **Linux** agents.


2. Configure the logs to be collected

Configure the facilities you want to collect and their severities.

1.  Under workspace advanced settings **Configuration**, select **Data** and then **Syslog**.
2.  Select **Apply below configuration to my machines** and select the facilities and severities.
3.  Click **Save**.

Configure and connect the Barracuda CloudGen Firewall

[Follow instructions](https://aka.ms/sentinel-barracudacloudfirewall-connector) to configure syslog streaming. Use the IP address or hostname for the Linux machine with the Microsoft Sentinel agent installed for the Destination IP address.




## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/microsoftsentinelcommunity.azure-sentinel-solution-barracudacloudgenfirewall?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
