---
title: "Claroty xDome connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector Claroty xDome to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/30/2024
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
ms.collection: sentinel-data-connector
---

# Claroty xDome connector for Microsoft Sentinel

[Claroty](https://claroty.com/) xDome delivers comprehensive security and alert management capabilities for healthcare and industrial network environments. It is designed to map multiple source types, identify the collected data, and integrate it into Microsoft Sentinel data models. This results in the ability to monitor all potential threats in your healthcare and industrial environments in one location, leading to more effective security monitoring and a stronger security posture.

This is autogenerated content. For changes, contact the solution provider.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | CommonSecurityLog (ClarotyxDome)<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | [Workspace transform DCR](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/tutorial-workspace-transformations-portal) |
| **Supported by** | [xDome Customer Support](https://claroty.com/support-policy) |

## Query samples

**Fetch logs from Claroty xDome**

   ```kusto

CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceVendor in ("Medigate", "Claroty") 
   | sort by TimeGenerated
   ```



## Vendor installation instructions

1.0 Linux Syslog agent configuration

Install and configure the Linux agent to collect your Common Event Format (CEF) Syslog messages and forward them to Microsoft Sentinel.

Notice that the data from all regions will be stored in the selected workspace

1.1 Select or create a Linux machine

Select or create a Linux machine that Microsoft Sentinel will use as the proxy between your security solution and Microsoft Sentinel this machine can be on your on-prem environment, Azure or other clouds.

1.2 Install the CEF collector on the Linux machine

Install the Microsoft Monitoring Agent on your Linux machine and configure the machine to listen on the necessary port and forward messages to your Microsoft Sentinel workspace. The CEF collector collects CEF messages on port 514 TCP.

1. Make sure that you have Python on your machine using the following command: python --version.

2. You must have elevated permissions (sudo) on your machine.

   Run the following command to install and apply the CEF collector:

   `sudo wget -O cef_installer.py https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel/master/DataConnectors/CEF/cef_installer.py&&sudo python cef_installer.py {0} {1}`

2. Forward Common Event Format (CEF) logs to Syslog agent

   Configure the Claroty xDome - Microsoft Sentinel integration to collect your Common Event Format (CEF) Syslog messages and forward them to Microsoft Sentinel.

3. Validate connection

Follow the instructions to validate your connectivity:

Open Log Analytics to check if the logs are received using the CommonSecurityLog schema.

It may take about 20 minutes until the connection streams data to your workspace.

If the logs are not received, run the following connectivity validation script:

1. Make sure that you have Python on your machine using the following command: python --version

2. You must have elevated permissions (sudo) on your machine

   Run the following command to validate your connectivity:

   `sudo wget -O cef_troubleshoot.py https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel/master/DataConnectors/CEF/cef_troubleshoot.py&&sudo python cef_troubleshoot.py  {0}`

4. Secure your machine 

Make sure to configure the machine's security according to your organization's security policy


[Learn more](https://aka.ms/SecureCEF)



## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/claroty1709722359369.microsoft-sentinel-solution-xdome?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
