---
title: "Corelight connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector Corelight to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/22/2023
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
---

# Corelight connector for Microsoft Sentinel

The [Corelight](https://corelight.com/) data connector enables incident responders and threat hunters who use Microsoft Sentinel to work faster and more effectively. The data connector enables ingestion of events from [Zeek](https://zeek.org/) and [Suricata](https://suricata-ids.org/) via Corelight Sensors into Microsoft Sentinel.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | Corelight_CL<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | Not currently supported |
| **Supported by** | [Corelight](https://support.corelight.com/) |

## Query samples

**Top 10 Clients (Source IP)**
   ```kusto
Corelight
 
   | summarize count() by SrcIpAddr
 
   | top 10 by count_
   ```



## Vendor installation instructions


> [!NOTE]
   >  This data connector depends on a parser based on a Kusto Function to work as expected [**Corelight**](https://aka.ms/sentinel-Corelight-parser) which is deployed with the Microsoft Sentinel Solution.

1. Install and onboard the agent for Linux or Windows

Install the agent on the Server where the Corelight logs are generated.

> Logs from Corelight Server deployed on Linux or Windows servers are collected by **Linux** or **Windows** agents.




2. Configure the logs to be collected

Follow the configuration steps below to get Corelight logs into Microsoft Sentinel. This configuration enriches events generated by Corelight module to provide visibility on log source information for Corelight logs. Refer to the [Azure Monitor Documentation](/azure/azure-monitor/agents/data-sources-json) for more details on these steps.
1. Log in to the server where you have installed Azure Log Analytics agent.
2. Copy corelight.conf to the /etc/opt/microsoft/omsagent/**workspace_id**/conf/omsagent.d/ folder.
3. Edit corelight.conf as follows:

	 i. configure an alternate port to send data to, if desired (line 3)

	 ii. replace **workspace_id** with real value of your Workspace ID (lines 22,23,24,27)
4. Save changes and restart the Azure Log Analytics agent for Linux service with the following command:
		sudo /opt/microsoft/omsagent/bin/service_control restart


3. Configure the Corelight Sensor to send logs to the Azure Log Analytics Agent

See the [Corelight documentation](https://docs.corelight.com/docs/sensor/export/json_tcp.html) for details on how to configure the Corelight Sensor to export JSON over TCP. Configure the JSON TCP Server to the IP address of the Azure Log Analytics Agent, using the port configured in the previous step (port 21234 by default)



## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/corelightinc1584998267292.corelight-for-azure-sentinel?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
