---
title: "Cyborg Security HUNTER Hunt Packages connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector Cyborg Security HUNTER Hunt Packages to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 04/26/2024
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
ms.collection: sentinel-data-connector
---

# Cyborg Security HUNTER Hunt Packages connector for Microsoft Sentinel

Cyborg Security is a leading provider of advanced threat hunting solutions, with a mission to empower organizations with cutting-edge technology and collaborative tools to proactively detect and respond to cyber threats. Cyborg Security's flagship offering, the HUNTER Platform, combines powerful analytics, curated threat hunting content, and comprehensive hunt management capabilities to create a dynamic ecosystem for effective threat hunting operations.

Follow the steps to gain access to Cyborg Security's Community and setup the 'Open in Tool' capabilities in the HUNTER Platform.

This is autogenerated content. For changes, contact the solution provider.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | SecurityEvents<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | [Workspace transform DCR](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/tutorial-workspace-transformations-portal) |
| **Supported by** | [Cyborg Security](https://hunter.cyborgsecurity.io/customer-support) |

## Query samples

**All Alerts**

   ```kusto
SecurityEvent
   ```



## Vendor installation instructions



   ResourceGroupName & WorkspaceName

   {0}

   WorkspaceID

   {0}

1. Sign up for Cyborg Security's HUNTER Community Account

   Cyborg Security offers Community Member access to a subset of the Emerging Threat Collections and hunt packages.

   Create a Free Community Account to get access to Cyborg Security's Hunt Packages: [Sign Up Now!](https://www.cyborgsecurity.com/user-account-creation/)

2. Configure the Open in Tool Feature



1.  Navigate to the [Environment](https://hunter.cyborgsecurity.io/environment) section of the HUNTER Platform.
2.  Fill in the **Root URI** of your environment in the section labeled **Microsoft Sentinel**. Replace the `<bolded items>` with the IDs and Names of your Subscription, Resource Groups and Workspaces.

    `https[]()://portal.azure.com#@**AzureTenantID**/blade/Microsoft_OperationsManagementSuite_Workspace/Logs.ReactView/resourceId/%2Fsubscriptions%2F**AzureSubscriptionID**%2Fresourcegroups%2F**ResourceGroupName**%2Fproviders%2Fmicrosoft.operationalinsights%2Fworkspaces%2F<**WorkspaceName**>/`
3.  Click **Save**.

3. Execute a HUNTER hunt package in Microsoft Sentinel



Identify a Cyborg Security HUNTER hunt package to deploy and use the **Open In Tool** button to quickly open Microsoft Sentinel and stage the hunting content.

## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/cyborgsecurityinc1689265652101.azure-sentinel-solution-cyborgsecurity-hunter?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
