---
title: "Doppel Data connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector Doppel Data to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: generated-reference
ms.date: 02/20/2025
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
ms.collection: sentinel-data-connector
---

# Doppel Data connector for Microsoft Sentinel

The data connector is built on Microsoft Sentinel for Doppel events and alerts and supports DCR-based [ingestion time transformations](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/ingestion-time-transformations) that parses the received security event data into a custom column so that queries don't need to parse it again, thus resulting in better performance.

This is autogenerated content. For changes, contact the solution provider.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | DoppelTable_CL<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | Not currently supported |
| **Supported by** | [Doppel](https://www.doppel.com/request-a-demo) |

## Query samples

**One event log**

   ```kusto
DoppelTable_CL 
   | take 1
   ```



## Prerequisites

To integrate with Doppel Data Connector make sure you have: 

- **Microsoft Entra Tenant ID, Client ID and Client Secret**: Microsoft Entra ID requires a Client ID and Client Secret to authenticate your application. Additionally, Global Admin/Owner level access is required to assign the Entra-registered application a Resource Group Monitoring Metrics Publisher role.
- **Requires Workspace ID, DCE-URI, DCR-ID**: You will need to get the Log Analytics Workspace ID, DCE Logs Ingestion URI and DCR Immutable ID for the configuration.


## Vendor installation instructions

Configure Doppel Webhook

Configure the Webhook in Doppel and Endpoint with permissions in Microsoft Sentinel to send data.




## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/doppel.azure-sentinel-solution-doppel?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
