---
title: "Microsoft Active-Directory Domain Controllers Security Event Logs connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector Microsoft Active-Directory Domain Controllers Security Event Logs to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 11/20/2024
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
ms.collection: sentinel-data-connector
---

# Microsoft Active-Directory Domain Controllers Security Event Logs connector for Microsoft Sentinel

[Option 3 & 4] - Using Azure Monitor Agent -You can stream a part or all Domain Controllers Security Event logs from the Windows machines connected to your Microsoft Sentinel workspace using the Windows agent. This connection enables you to create custom alerts, and improve investigation.

This is autogenerated content. For changes, contact the solution provider.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | SecurityEvent<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | Not currently supported |
| **Supported by** | [Community](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel/issues) |

## Query samples

**All Audit logs**

   ```kusto
SecurityEvent 
   | sort by TimeGenerated
   ```



## Prerequisites

To integrate with Microsoft Active-Directory Domain Controllers Security Event Logs make sure you have: 

- ****: Azure Log Analytics will be deprecated, to collect data from non-Azure VMs, Azure Arc is recommended. [Learn more](/azure/azure-monitor/agents/azure-monitor-agent-install?tabs=ARMAgentPowerShell,PowerShellWindows,PowerShellWindowsArc,CLIWindows,CLIWindowsArc)
- **Detailed documentation**: >**NOTE:** Detailed documentation on Installation procedure and usage can be found [here](https://aka.ms/MicrosoftExchangeSecurityGithub)


## Vendor installation instructions


> [!NOTE]
   >  This solution is based on options. This allows you to choose which data will be ingest as some options can generate a very high volume of data. Depending on what you want to collect, track in your Workbooks, Analytics Rules, Hunting capabilities you will choose the option(s) you will deploy. Each options are independent for one from the other. To learn more about each option: ['Microsoft Exchange Security' wiki](https://aka.ms/ESI_DataConnectorOptions)

>This Data Connector is the **option 3 and 4** of the wiki.

1.  Download and install the agents needed to collect logs for Microsoft Sentinel

Type of servers (Exchange Servers, Domain Controllers linked to Exchange Servers or all Domain Controllers) depends on the option you want to deploy.


Security logs of Domain Controllers

Select how to stream Security logs of Domain Controllers. If you want to implement Option 3, you just need to select DC on same site as Exchange Servers. If you want to implement Option 4, you can select all DCs of your forest.





## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/microsoftsentinelcommunity.azure-sentinel-solution-exchangesecurityinsights?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
