---
title: "Phosphorus Devices connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector Phosphorus Devices to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 10/15/2024
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
ms.collection: sentinel-data-connector
---

# Phosphorus Devices connector for Microsoft Sentinel

The Phosphorus Device Connector provides the capability to Phosphorus to ingest device data logs into Microsoft Sentinel through the Phosphorus REST API. The Connector provides visibility into the devices enrolled in Phosphorus. This Data Connector pulls devices information along with its corresponding alerts.

This is autogenerated content. For changes, contact the solution provider.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | Phosphorus_CL<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | Not currently supported |
| **Supported by** | [Phosphorus Inc.](https://phosphorus.io) |

## Query samples

**List all Phosphorus Device Logs**

   ```kusto
Phosphorus_CL 
 
   | sort by TimeGenerated desc
   ```



## Prerequisites

To integrate with Phosphorus Devices make sure you have: 

- **REST API Credentials/permissions**: **Phosphorus API Key** is required. Please make sure that the API Key associated with the User has the Manage Settings permissions enabled.

 Follow these instructions to enable Manage Settings permissions.
 1. Log in to the Phosphorus Application
 2. Go to 'Settings' -> 'Groups'
 3. Select the Group the Integration user is a part of
 4. Navigate to 'Product Actions' -> toggle on the 'Manage Settings' permission. 


## Vendor installation instructions


**STEP 1 - Configuration steps for the Phosphorus API**

 Follow these instructions to create a Phosphorus API  key.
 1. Log into your Phosphorus instance
 2. Navigate to Settings -> API 
 3. If the API key has not already been created, press the **Add button** to create the API key
 4. The API key can now be copied and used during the Phosphorus Device connector configuration

Connect the Phosphorus Application with Microsoft Sentinel

**STEP 2 - Fill in the details below**

>**IMPORTANT:** Before deploying the Phosphorus Device data connector, have the Phosphorus Instance Domain Name readily available as well as the Phosphorus API  Key(s)




## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/4043.microsoft-sentinel-solution-phosphorus?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
