---
title: "[Recommended] Infoblox Cloud Data Connector via AMA connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector [Recommended] Infoblox Cloud Data Connector via AMA to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 10/15/2024
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
ms.collection: sentinel-data-connector
---

# [Recommended] Infoblox Cloud Data Connector via AMA connector for Microsoft Sentinel

The Infoblox Cloud Data Connector allows you to easily connect your Infoblox data with Microsoft Sentinel. By connecting your logs to Microsoft Sentinel, you can take advantage of search & correlation, alerting, and threat intelligence enrichment for each log.

This is autogenerated content. For changes, contact the solution provider.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | CommonSecurityLog<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | [Workspace transform DCR](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/tutorial-workspace-transformations-portal) |
| **Supported by** | [Infoblox](https://support.infoblox.com/) |

## Query samples

**Return all Block DNS Query/Response logs**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID has_cs "RPZ"
   ```

**Return all DNS Query/Response logs**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID has_cs "DNS"
   ```

**Return all DHCP Query/Response logs**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID has_cs "DHCP"
   ```

**Return all Service Logs Query/Response logs**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID has_cs "Service"
   ```

**Return all Audit Query/Response logs**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID has_cs "Audit"
   ```

**Return all Category Filters security events logs**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID has_cs "RPZ"
 
   | where AdditionalExtensions has_cs "InfobloxRPZ=CAT_"
   ```

**Return all Application Filters security events logs**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID has_cs "RPZ"
 
   | where AdditionalExtensions has_cs "InfobloxRPZ=APP_"
   ```

**Return Top 10 TD Domains Hit Count**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID has_cs "RPZ" 

   | summarize count() by DestinationDnsDomain 

   | top 10 by count_ desc
   ```

**Return Top 10 TD Source IPs Hit Count**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID has_cs "RPZ" 

   | summarize count() by SourceIP 

   | top 10 by count_ desc
   ```

**Return Recently Created DHCP Leases**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog

   | where DeviceEventClassID == "DHCP-LEASE-CREATE"
   ```



## Vendor installation instructions


>**IMPORTANT:** This Microsoft Sentinel data connector assumes an Infoblox Data Connector host has already been created and configured in the Infoblox Cloud Services Portal (CSP). As the [**Infoblox Data Connector**](https://docs.infoblox.com/display/BloxOneThreatDefense/Deploying+the+Data+Connector+Solution) is a feature of Threat Defense, access to an appropriate Threat Defense subscription is required. See this [**quick-start guide**](https://www.infoblox.com/wp-content/uploads/infoblox-deployment-guide-data-connector.pdf) for more information and licensing requirements.

1. Linux Syslog agent configuration

Install and configure the Linux agent to collect your Common Event Format (CEF) Syslog messages and forward them to Microsoft Sentinel.

> Notice that the data from all regions will be stored in the selected workspace

1.1 Select or create a Linux machine

Select or create a Linux machine that Microsoft Sentinel will use as the proxy between your security solution and Microsoft Sentinel this machine can be on your on-prem environment, Azure or other clouds.

1.2 Install the CEF collector on the Linux machine

Install the Microsoft Monitoring Agent on your Linux machine and configure the machine to listen on the necessary port and forward messages to your Microsoft Sentinel workspace. The CEF collector collects CEF messages on port 514 TCP.

> 1. Make sure that you have Python on your machine using the following command: python -version.

> 2. You must have elevated permissions (sudo) on your machine.

   Run the following command to install and apply the CEF collector:

   `sudo wget -O cef_installer.py https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel/master/DataConnectors/CEF/cef_installer.py&&sudo python cef_installer.py {0} {1}`

2. Configure Infoblox to send Syslog data to the Infoblox Cloud Data Connector to forward to the Syslog agent

Follow the steps below to configure the Infoblox CDC to send  data to Microsoft Sentinel via the Linux Syslog agent.
1. Navigate to **Manage > Data Connector**.
2. Click the **Destination Configuration** tab at the top.
3. Click **Create > Syslog**. 
 - **Name**: Give the new Destination a meaningful **name**, such as **Microsoft-Sentinel-Destination**.
 - **Description**: Optionally give it a meaningful **description**.
 - **State**: Set the state to **Enabled**.
 - **Format**: Set the format to **CEF**.
 - **FQDN/IP**: Enter the IP address of the Linux device on which the Linux agent is installed.
 - **Port**: Leave the port number at **514**.
 - **Protocol**: Select desired protocol and CA certificate if applicable.
 - Click **Save & Close**.
4. Click the **Traffic Flow Configuration** tab at the top.
5. Click **Create**.
 - **Name**: Give the new Traffic Flow a meaningful **name**, such as **Microsoft-Sentinel-Flow**.
 - **Description**: Optionally give it a meaningful **description**. 
 - **State**: Set the state to **Enabled**. 
 - Expand the **Service Instance** section. 
    - **Service Instance**: Select your desired Service Instance for which the Data Connector service is enabled. 
 - Expand the **Source Configuration** section.  
    - **Source**: Select **BloxOne Cloud Source**. 
    - Select all desired **log types** you wish to collect. Currently supported log types are:
      - Threat Defense Query/Response Log
      - Threat Defense Threat Feeds Hits Log
      - DDI Query/Response Log
      - DDI DHCP Lease Log
 - Expand the **Destination Configuration** section.  
    - Select the **Destination** you just created. 
 - Click **Save & Close**. 
6. Allow the configuration some time to activate.

3. Validate connection

Follow the instructions to validate your connectivity:

Open Log Analytics to check if the logs are received using the CommonSecurityLog schema.

>It may take about 20 minutes until the connection streams data to your workspace.

If the logs are not received, run the following connectivity validation script:

> 1. Make sure that you have Python on your machine using the following command: python -version

>2. You must have elevated permissions (sudo) on your machine

   Run the following command to validate your connectivity:

   `sudo wget  -O cef_troubleshoot.py https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel/master/DataConnectors/CEF/cef_troubleshoot.py&&sudo python cef_troubleshoot.py  {0}`

4. Secure your machine 

Make sure to configure the machine's security according to your organization's security policy


[Learn more >](https://aka.ms/SecureCEF)



## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/infoblox.infoblox-app-for-microsoft-sentinel?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
