---
title: "SaaS Security connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector SaaS Security to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 04/26/2024
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
ms.collection: sentinel-data-connector
---

# SaaS Security connector for Microsoft Sentinel

Connects the Valence SaaS security platform Azure Log Analytics via the REST API interface

This is autogenerated content. For changes, contact the solution provider.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | ValenceAlert_CL<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | Not currently supported |
| **Supported by** | [Valence Security](https://www.valencesecurity.com/) |

## Query samples

**All Valence Security alerts**

   ```kusto
ValenceAlert_CL
   ```

**All critical Valence Security alerts**

   ```kusto
ValenceAlert_CL 
   | where alertType_severity_s == "Critical"
   ```



## Vendor installation instructions

Step 1 : Read the detailed documentation

The installation process is documented in great detail in [Valence Security's knowledge base](https://support.valencesecurity.com). The user should consult this documentation further to understand installation and debug of the integration.

Step 2: Retrieve the workspace access credentials

The first installation step is to retrieve both your **Workspace ID** and **Primary Key** from the Microsoft Sentinel platform.
Copy the values shown below and save them for configuration of the API log forwarder integration.



Step 3: Configure Sentinel integration on the Valence Security Platform

As a Valence Security Platform admin, go to the [configuration screen](https://app.valencesecurity.com/settings/configuration), click Connect in the SIEM Integration card, and choose Microsoft Sentinel. Paste the values from the previous step and click Connect. Valence will test the connection so when success is reported, the connection worked.



## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/valencesecurityinc1673598943514.valence_sentinel_solution?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
