---
title: "Silverfort Admin Console connector for Microsoft Sentinel"
description: "Learn how to install the connector Silverfort Admin Console to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel."
author: cwatson-cat
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 10/15/2024
ms.service: microsoft-sentinel
ms.author: cwatson
ms.collection: sentinel-data-connector
---

# Silverfort Admin Console connector for Microsoft Sentinel

The [Silverfort](https://silverfort.com) ITDR Admin Console connector solution allows ingestion of Silverfort events and logging into Microsoft Sentinel.
 Silverfort provides syslog based events and logging using Common Event Format (CEF). By forwarding your Silverfort ITDR Admin Console CEF data into Microsoft Sentinel, you can take advantage of Sentinels's search & correlation, alerting, and threat intelligence enrichment on Silverfort data. 
 Please contact Silverfort or consult the Silverfort documentation for more information.

This is autogenerated content. For changes, contact the solution provider.

## Connector attributes

| Connector attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Log Analytics table(s)** | CommonSecurityLog (DATATYPE_NAME)<br/> |
| **Data collection rules support** | [Workspace transform DCR](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/tutorial-workspace-transformations-portal) |
| **Supported by** | [Silverfort](https://www.silverfort.com/customer-success/#support) |

## Query samples

**Get all User Brute Force incidents**

   ```kusto
CommonSecurityLog 
  
   | where DeviceVendor has 'Silverfort'
  
   | where DeviceProduct has 'Admin Console'
  
   | where DeviceEventClassID == "NewIncident"
  
   | where Message has "UserBruteForce"

   ```



## Vendor installation instructions

1. Linux Syslog agent configuration

Install and configure the Linux agent to collect your Common Event Format (CEF) Syslog messages and forward them to Microsoft Sentinel.

> Notice that the data from all regions will be stored in the selected workspace

1.1 Select or create a Linux machine

Select or create a Linux machine that Microsoft Sentinel will use as the proxy between your security solution and Microsoft Sentinel this machine can be on your on-prem environment, Azure or other clouds.

1.2 Install the CEF collector on the Linux machine

Install the Microsoft Monitoring Agent on your Linux machine and configure the machine to listen on the necessary port and forward messages to your Microsoft Sentinel workspace. The CEF collector collects CEF messages on port 514 TCP.

> 1. Make sure that you have Python on your machine using the following command: python -version.

> 2. You must have elevated permissions (sudo) on your machine.

   Run the following command to install and apply the CEF collector:

   `sudo wget -O cef_installer.py https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel/master/DataConnectors/CEF/cef_installer.py&&sudo python cef_installer.py {0} {1}`

2. Forward Common Event Format (CEF) logs to Syslog agent

Set your security solution to send Syslog messages in CEF format to the proxy machine. Make sure you to send the logs to port 514 TCP on the machine's IP address.

3. Validate connection

Follow the instructions to validate your connectivity:

Open Log Analytics to check if the logs are received using the CommonSecurityLog schema.

>It may take about 20 minutes until the connection streams data to your workspace.

If the logs are not received, run the following connectivity validation script:

> 1. Make sure that you have Python on your machine using the following command: python -version

>2. You must have elevated permissions (sudo) on your machine

   Run the following command to validate your connectivity:

   `sudo wget  -O cef_troubleshoot.py https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel/master/DataConnectors/CEF/cef_troubleshoot.py&&sudo python cef_troubleshoot.py  {0}`

4. Secure your machine 

Make sure to configure the machine's security according to your organization's security policy


[Learn more >](https://aka.ms/SecureCEF)



## Next steps

For more information, go to the [related solution](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/silverfort.microsoft-sentinel-solution-silverfort?tab=Overview) in the Azure Marketplace.
