articles/marketplace/cloud-partner-portal/virtual-machine/cpp-publish-offer.md, before:

---
title: Publish a virtual machine offer in the Azure Marketplace 
description: Lists the steps required to publish an existing virtual machine offer onto the Azure Marketplace.
author: dsindona
ms.service: marketplace
ms.subservice: partnercenter-marketplace-publisher
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 08/17/2018
ms.author: dsindona
---

# Publish a virtual machine offer

 The last step, after you have defined the offer in the portal and created the associated technical assets, is to submit the offer for publishing. The following diagram depicts the main steps in the publishing process to "go live":

![Publishing steps for virtual machine offer](./media/publishvm_013.png)

The following table describes these steps and provides a maximum time estimate for their completion:
<!-- we need to tell them that if an offer seems stuck in a step, to know that they should file a support ticket (link to support ticket doc) -->


|  **Publishing Step**           | **Time**    | **Description**                                                            |
|  -------------------           | --------    | ---------------                                                            |
| Validate prerequisites         | 15 min   | Offer information and offer settings are validated.                        |
| Test Drive Validation (optional) | 2 hours | If you have selected to enable Test Drive, Microsoft validates the Test Drive configuration, its deployment, and replication through the selected regions. |
| Certification                  | 3 days | Offer is analyzed by the Azure Certification Team. This step will perform scans for viruses, malware, safety compliance, and security issues. Feedback is provided if an issue is found. |
| Provisioning                   | 4 days   | VM offer is replicated in marketplace production systems.               |
| Packaging and lead generation registration | \< 1 hour  | Offer's technical assets are packaged for customer use and the lead systems are configured and setup. |
|  Publisher signoff             |  -        | Final publisher review and confirmation before the offer goes live. You can deploy your offer in the selected subscriptions (in the offer information steps) to verify that it meets all your requirements.  |
| Provisioning                   | 4 days | Finalized VM offer is replicated in marketplace production systems and regions. | 
| Live                           | 4 days | VM offer is released, replicated to the required regions, and made available to the public. |
|  |  |

Allow for up to 16 days for this process to complete.  After you go through these publishing steps, your VM offer will be listed in the [Microsoft Azure Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/).

Commit message:

Adding banner to CPP docs to inform partners of migration

articles/marketplace/cloud-partner-portal/virtual-machine/cpp-publish-offer.md, after:

---
title: Publish a virtual machine offer in the Azure Marketplace 
description: Lists the steps required to publish an existing virtual machine offer onto the Azure Marketplace.
author: dsindona
ms.service: marketplace
ms.subservice: partnercenter-marketplace-publisher
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 08/17/2018
ms.author: dsindona
---

# Publish a virtual machine offer

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Starting April 13, 2020, we'll begin moving the management of your Azure Virtual Machine offers to Partner Center. After the migration, you'll create and manage your offers in Partner Center. Follow the instructions in [Create an Azure Virtual Machine offer](https://aka.ms/CreateAzureVMoffer) to manage your migrated offers.

 The last step, after you have defined the offer in the portal and created the associated technical assets, is to submit the offer for publishing. The following diagram depicts the main steps in the publishing process to "go live":

![Publishing steps for virtual machine offer](./media/publishvm_013.png)

The following table describes these steps and provides a maximum time estimate for their completion:
<!-- we need to tell them that if an offer seems stuck in a step, to know that they should file a support ticket (link to support ticket doc) -->


|  **Publishing Step**           | **Time**    | **Description**                                                            |
|  -------------------           | --------    | ---------------                                                            |
| Validate prerequisites         | 15 min   | Offer information and offer settings are validated.                        |
| Test Drive Validation (optional) | 2 hours | If you have selected to enable Test Drive, Microsoft validates the Test Drive configuration, its deployment, and replication through the selected regions. |
| Certification                  | 3 days | Offer is analyzed by the Azure Certification Team. This step will perform scans for viruses, malware, safety compliance, and security issues. Feedback is provided if an issue is found. |
| Provisioning                   | 4 days   | VM offer is replicated in marketplace production systems.               |
| Packaging and lead generation registration | \< 1 hour  | Offer's technical assets are packaged for customer use and the lead systems are configured and setup. |
|  Publisher signoff             |  -        | Final publisher review and confirmation before the offer goes live. You can deploy your offer in the selected subscriptions (in the offer information steps) to verify that it meets all your requirements.  |
| Provisioning                   | 4 days | Finalized VM offer is replicated in marketplace production systems and regions. | 
| Live                           | 4 days | VM offer is released, replicated to the required regions, and made available to the public. |
|  |  |

Allow for up to 16 days for this process to complete.  After you go through these publishing steps, your VM offer will be listed in the [Microsoft Azure Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/).
