---
title: Tutorial - Azure IoT Smart inventory management | Microsoft Docs
description: This tutorial shows you how to deploy and use smart inventory management application template for IoT Central
author: KishorIoT
ms.author: nandab
ms.service: iot-central
ms.subservice: iot-central-retail
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 10/20/2019
---

# Tutorial: Deploy and walk through the smart inventory management application template

Use the IoT Central *smart inventory management* application template and the guidance in this article to develop an end-to-end smart inventory management solution.

   :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-iot-central-smart-inventory-management/smart-inventory-management-architecture.png" alt-text="smart inventory management.":::

1. Set of IoT sensors sending telemetry data to a gateway device
2. Gateway devices sending telemetry and aggregated insights to IoT Central
3. Data is routed to the desired Azure service for manipulation
4. Azure services like ASA or Azure Functions can be used to reformat data streams and send to the desired storage accounts 
5. Processed data is stored in hot storage for near real-time actions or cold storage for additional insight enhancements that is based on ML or batch analysis. 
6. Logic Apps can be used to power various business workflows in end-user business applications

### Details

Following section outlines each part of the conceptual architecture
Telemetry ingestion from Radio-frequency identification (RFID), Bluetooth low energy (BLE) tags

### RFID tags

RFID tags transmit data about an item through radio waves. RFID tags typically don't have a battery unless specified. Tags receive energy from the radio waves generated by the reader and transmit a signal back toward the RFID reader.

### BLE tags

Energy beacon broadcasts packets of data at regular intervals. Beacon data is detected by BLE readers or installed services on smartphones and then transmitting that to the cloud.

### RFID & BLE readers

RFID reader converts the radio waves to a more usable form of data. Information collected from the tags is then stored in local edge server or sent to cloud using JSON-RPC 2.0 over MQTT.
BLE reader also known as Access Points (AP) are similar to RFID reader. It is used to detect nearby Bluetooth signals and relay its message to local Azure IoT Edge or cloud using JSON-RPC 2.0 over MQTT.
Many readers are capable of reading RFID and beacon signals, and providing additional sensor capability related to temperature, humidity, accelerometer, and gyroscope.

### Azure IoT Edge gateway

Azure IoT Edge server provides a place to preprocess that data locally before sending it on to the cloud. We can also deploy cloud workloads artificial intelligence, Azure and third-party services, business logic using standard containers.

### Device management with IoT Central 

Azure IoT Central is a solution development platform that simplifies IoT device connectivity, configuration, and management. The platform significantly reduces the burden and costs of IoT device management, operations, and related developments. Customers & partners can build an end to end enterprise solutions to achieve a digital feedback loop in inventory management.

### Business insights & actions using data egress 

IoT Central platform provides rich extensibility options through Continuous Data Export (CDE) and APIs. Business insights based on telemetry data processing or raw telemetry are typically exported to a preferred line-of-business application. It can be achieved using webhook, service bus, event hub, or blob storage to build, train, and deploy machine learning models & further enrich insights.

In this tutorial, you learn how to,

> [!div class="checklist"]

> * create smart inventory management application 
> * walk through the application 

## Prerequisites

* No specific pre-requisites required to deploy this app
* Recommended to have Azure subscription, but you can even try without it

## Create smart inventory management application

Create the application using the following steps:

1. Navigate to the [Azure IoT Central Build](https://aka.ms/iotcentral) site. Then sign in with a Microsoft personal, work, or school account. Select **Build** from the left-hand navigation bar and then select the **Retail** tab:
    :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-iot-central-smart-inventory-management/iotc-retail-home-page.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to create an app from the smart inventory management application template":::

1. Select **Create app** under **smart inventory management**.

To learn more, see [Create an IoT Central application](../core/howto-create-iot-central-application.md).

## Walk through the application

The following sections walk you through the key features of the application:

### Dashboard 

After successfully deploying the app template, your default dashboard is a smart inventory management operator focused portal. Northwind Trader is a fictitious smart inventory provider managing warehouse with Bluetooth low energy (BLE) and retail store with Radio-frequency identification (RFID). In this dashboard, you will see two different gateways providing telemetry about inventory along with associated commands, jobs, and actions that you can perform. 
This dashboard is pre-configured to showcase the critical smart inventory management device operations activity.
The dashboard is logically divided between two different gateway device management operations, 
   * The warehouse is deployed with a fixed BLE gateway & BLE tags on pallets to track & trace inventory at a larger facility
   * Retail store is implemented with a fixed RFID gateway & RFID tags at individual an item level to track and trace the stock in a store outlet
  * View the gateway [location](../core/howto-use-location-data.md), status & related details 

    :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-iot-central-smart-inventory-management/smart-inventory-management-dashboard-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the top half of the smart inventory management dashboard.":::

    * You can easily track the total number of gateways, active, and unknown tags.
    * You can perform device management operations such as update firmware, disable sensor, enable sensor, update sensor threshold, update telemetry intervals & update device service contracts
    * Gateway devices can perform on-demand inventory management with a complete or incremental scan.

    :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-iot-central-smart-inventory-management/smart-inventory-management-dashboard-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the bottom half of the smart inventory management dashboard.":::

### Device Template

Click on the Device templates tab, and you will see the gateway capability model. A capability model is structured around two different interfaces **Gateway Telemetry & Property** and **Gateway Commands**

**Gateway Telemetry & Property** - This interface represents all the telemetry related to sensors, location, device info, and device twin property capability such as gateway thresholds and update intervals.

   :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-iot-central-smart-inventory-management/smart-inventory-management-device-template-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the inventory gateway device template in the application.":::

**Gateway Commands** - This interface organizes all the gateway command capabilities

   :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-iot-central-smart-inventory-management/smart-inventory-management-device-template-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the gateway commands interface in the inventory gateway device template.":::

### Rules

Select the rules tab to see two different rules that exist in this application template. These rules are configured to email notifications to the operators for further investigations.

**Gateway offline**: This rule will trigger if the gateway doesn't report to the cloud for a prolonged period. Gateway could be unresponsive because of low battery mode, loss of connectivity, device health.

**Unknown tags**: It's critical to track every RFID & BLE tags associated with an asset. If the gateway is detecting too many unknown tags, it's an indication of synchronization challenges with tag sourcing applications.

   :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-iot-central-smart-inventory-management/smart-inventory-management-rules.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the list of rules in the smart inventory management application.":::

## Clean up resources

If you're not going to continue to use this application, delete the application template by visiting **Administration** > **Application settings** and click **Delete**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-iot-central-smart-inventory-management/smart-inventory-management-cleanup.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to delete the application when you're done with it.":::

## Next steps

Learn more about smart inventory management:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Smart inventory management concept](./architecture-smart-inventory-management.md)
