---
title: Image provenance in Azure OpenAI
titleSuffix: Azure OpenAI
description: Learn about the content credentials feature, which lets you verify that an image was generated by an AI model.
author: PatrickFarley
ms.author: pafarley
ms.service: azure-ai-openai
ms.topic: conceptual 
ms.date: 11/08/2023
ms.custom: 
manager: nitinme
keywords: 
---

# Image provenance 

With the improved quality of content from generative AI models, there is an increased need for transparency on the history of AI generated content. All AI-generated images from the Azure OpenAI service now include a digital credential that discloses the content as AI-generated. This is done in collaboration with The Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA), a Joint Development Foundation project. Visit the [C2PA site](https://c2pa.org/) to learn more about this coalition and its initiatives. 

## Image provenance in Azure OpenAI

Image Provenance in the Azure OpenAI service provides customers with basic, trustworthy information (detailed in the chart below) about the origin of an image generated by the DALL-E series models. This information is represented by a manifest embedded inside the image. This manifest is cryptographically signed by a certificate that customers can trace back to Azure OpenAI Service. This signature is also embedded into the manifest itself.

The JSON manifest contains several key pieces of information: 

| Field name | Field content |
| ---| ---|
| `"description"` | This field has a value of `"AI Generated Image"` for all DALL-E model generated images, attesting to the AI-generated nature of the image. |
| `"softwareAgent"` | This field has a value of `"Azure OpenAI DALL-E"` for all images generated by DALL-E series models in the Azure OpenAI service. |
|`"when"` |The timestamp of when the image was generated. | 


This digital signature can help people understand when visual content is AI-generated. It's important to keep in mind that image provenance can help establish the truth about the origin of digital content, but it alone can't tell you whether the digital content is true, accurate, or factual. Content credentials are designed to be used as one tool among others to help customers validate their media. For more information on how to responsibly build solutions with Azure OpenAI service image-generation models, visit the [Azure OpenAI transparency note](/legal/cognitive-services/openai/transparency-note?tabs=text)

## How do I use content credentials in my solution today? 

Customers can use content credentials for two main purposes:
- To ensure that their own AI-generated images contain content credentials.
    No extra setup is necessary. Content credentials are automatically applied to all generated-images from DALL-E in the Azure OpenAI service.
- To verify that an image has content credentials.

    There are two recommended ways to check the Credential of an image generated by Azure OpenAI DALL-E models:
    - **By the content credentials website (contentcredentials.org/verify)**: This web page provides a user interface that allows users to upload any image. If an image is generated by DALL-E in Azure OpenAI, the content credentials webpage shows that the image was issued by Microsoft Corporation alongside the date and time of image creation.
    
        images tbd

        This page shows that an Azure OpenAI DALL-E generated image has been issued by Microsoft.
    - **With the Content Authenticity Initiative (CAI) JavaScript SDK**: the Content Authenticity Initiative open-source tools and libraries can verify the provenance information embedded in DALL-E generated images and are recommended for web-based applications that display images generated with Azure OpenAI DALL-E models. Get started with the SDK [here](https://opensource.contentauthenticity.org/docs/js-sdk/getting-started/quick-start).
    
        As a best practice, consider checking provenance information in images displayed in your application using the CAI SDK and embedding the results of the check in the application UI along with AI-generated images. Below is an example from Bing Image Creator.  
        
        tbd image