---
# Mandatory fields. See more on aka.ms/skyeye/meta.
title: Getting started with Azure Media Clipper | Microsoft Docs 
description: Getting started with Azure Media Clipper, a tool for building video clips from AMS assets
services: media-services
keywords: clip;subclip;encoding;media
author: dbgeorge
manager: jasonsue
ms.author: dwgeo
ms.date: 03/14/2019
ms.topic: article
# Use only one of the following. Use ms.service for services, ms.prod for on premises. Remove the # before the relevant field.
ms.service: media-services
# product-name-from-white-list

# Optional fields. Don't forget to remove # if you need a field.
# ms.custom: can-be-multiple-comma-separated
# ms.devlang:devlang-from-white-list
# ms.suite: 
# ms.tgt_pltfrm:
# ms.reviewer:
# manager: MSFT-alias-manager-or-PM-counterpart
---

# Create clips with Azure Media Clipper
This section shows you the basic steps of getting started with Azure Media Clipper. Sections that follow provide the specifics on how to configure Azure Media Clipper.

- First, add the following links for Azure Media Player and Azure Media Clipper to your document's head. We recommend explicitly specifying a version of the Clipper and Azure Media Player in the URLs. Do not use the latest version of these resources in production as they are subject to change on demand.

```javascript
<!--Azure Media Player 2.1.4 or later is a prerequisite-->
<link href="//amp.azure.net/libs/amp/2.1.4/skins/amp-default/azuremediaplayer.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
<script src="//amp.azure.net/libs/amp/2.1.4/azuremediaplayer.min.js"></script>
<!--Azure Media Clipper script and stylesheet-->
<link href="//amp.azure.net/libs/amc/0.1.0/azuremediaclipper.css" rel="stylesheet">
<script src="//amp.azure.net/libs/amc/0.1.0/azuremediaclipper.min.js"></script>
```

- Next, add the following classes to the div element where you would like to instantiate the Clipper.

```javascript
<div id="root" class="azure-subclipper" />
```

Optionally, to enable the dark theme, add the dark-skin class:

```javascript
<div id="root" class="azure-subclipper dark-skin" />
```

- Next, instantiate the Clipper with the following API call:

```javascript
var subclipper = new subclipper({
    selector: '#root',
    logLevel: 'info',
    restVersion: '2.0',
    minimumMarkerGap: 6,
    submitSubclipCallback: onSubmitSubclip,
    singleBitrateMp4Profile: {
            Codecs: [{
                    // Video Codec with single H264Layers
                }, {
                    // Audio Codec
                }]
    },
    multiBitrateMp4Profile: {
            Codecs: [{
                    // Video Codec with multiple H264Layers
                }, {
                    // Audio Codec
                }]
    },
    keymap: {
      // See below for more info
    },
   // Enable the Video Assets panel in the widget to automatically load assets (input contract)
    assetsPanelLoaderCallback: onLoadAssets,
    height: 600,
    subclippingMode: 'all',
    filterAssetsTypes: true,
    speedLevels: [
        { name: '4x', value: 4.0 },
        { name: '3x', value: 3.0 },
        { name: '2x', value: 2.0 },
        { name: 'normal', value: 1.0 },
        { name: '0.75x', value: 0.75 },
        { name: '0.5x', value: 0.5 },
    ],
    resetOnJobDone: false,
    autoplayVideo: true,
    language: 'en'    
});
```

The parameters for the initialization method call are:
- `selector` {REQUIRED, string}: CSS selector of the matching HTML element where the widget should be rendered.
- `restVersion` {REQUIRED, string}: The Azure Media Services REST API version to target. The REST version defines the format of the output generated by the widget. Currently, only 2.0 is supported.
- `submitSubclipCallback` {REQUIRED, promise} The callback function invoked when the "submit" button of the widget is clicked. The callback function should expect the output generated by the widget (a render job configuration or a filter definition). For more information, see Submit subclip callback.
- `logLevel` {OPTIONAL, {'info', 'warn', 'error'}}: The logging level to be displayed in the browser’s console. Default value: error
- `minimumMarkerGap` {OPTIONAL, int}: The minimum size of a subclip (in seconds). Note: the value should be greater or equal to 6, which is also the default.
- `singleBitrateMp4Profile` {OPTIONAL, JSON object} The single bitrate mp4 profile to use for the render job configuration generated by the widget. If not provided, it uses the [default single-bitrate MP4 profile](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/media-services/media-services-mes-preset-h264-single-bitrate-1080p).
- `multiBitrateMp4Profile` {OPTIONAL, JSON object} The multi bitrate mp4 profile to use for render job configuration generated by the widget. If not provided, it uses the [default multi-bitrate MP4 profile](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/media-services/media-services-mes-preset-h264-multiple-bitrate-1080p).
- `keymap` {OPTIONAL, json object} Allows customizing the keyboard shortcuts of the widget. For more information, see [customizable keyboard shortcuts](media-services-azure-media-clipper-keyboard-shortcuts.md).
- `assetsPanelLoaderCallback` {OPTIONAL, promise} The callback function invoked to load (asynchronously) a new page of assets into the assets pane every time the user scrolls down to the bottom of the pane. For more information, see Asset pane loader callback.
- `height` {OPTIONAL, number} The total height of the widget (minimum height is 600 px without assets pane and 850 px with the assets pane).
- `subclippingMode` (OPTIONAL, {'all', 'render', 'filter'}): The subclipping mode(s) allowed. The default value is all.
- `filterAssetsTypes` (OPTIONAL, bool): filterAssetsTypes allow you to show/hide the filters dropdown from the assets pane. The default value is true.
- `speedLevels` (OPTIONAL, array): speedLevels allows setting different speed levels for the video player, see [Azure Media Player documentation](https://amp.azure.net/libs/amp/latest/docs/#amp.player.playbackspeedoptions) for more info.
- `resetOnJobDone` (OPTIONAL, bool): resetOnJobDone allows Clipper to reset the subclipper to an initial state when a job is submitted successfully.
- `autoplayVideo` (OPTIONAL, bool): autoplayVideo allows Clipper to autoplay the video on load. The default value is true.
- `language` {OPTIONAL, string}: language sets the language of the widget. If not specified, the widget tries to localize the messages based on the browser language. If no language is detected in the browser, the widget defaults to English. For more information, see the [configure localization](media-services-azure-media-clipper-localization.md) section.
- `languages` {OPTIONAL, JSON}: the languages parameter replaces the default dictionary of languages with a custom dictionary defined by the user. For more information, see the [configure localization](media-services-azure-media-clipper-localization.md) section.
- `extraLanguages` (OPTIONAL, JSON): the extraLanguages parameter adds new languages to the default dictionary. For more information, see the [configure localization](media-services-azure-media-clipper-localization.md) section.

## TypeScript definition
A [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) definition file for the Clipper can be found [here](https://amp.azure.net/libs/amc/latest/azuremediaclipper.d.ts).

## Azure Media Clipper API
This section documents the API surface provided by the Clipper.

- `ready(handler)`: offers a way to run JavaScript as soon as the Clipper is fully loaded and ready to be used.
- `load(assets)`: loads a list of assets into the widget timeline (should not be used together with assetsPanelLoaderCallback). See this [article](media-services-azure-media-clipper-load-assets.md) for details on how to load assets into the Clipper.
- `setLogLevel(level)`: sets the logging level to be displayed in the browser’s console. Possible values are: `info`, `warn`, `error`.
- `setHeight(height)`: sets the total height of the widget in pixels (minimum height is 600 px without assets pane, and 850 px with the assets pane).
- `version`: gets the widget version.

## Next steps
See the next steps for configuring Azure Media Clipper:
- [Loading assets into Azure Media Clipper](media-services-azure-media-clipper-load-assets.md)
- [Configuring custom keyboard shortcuts](media-services-azure-media-clipper-keyboard-shortcuts.md)
- [Submitting clipping jobs from the Clipper](media-services-azure-media-clipper-submit-job.md)
- [Configuring localization](media-services-azure-media-clipper-localization.md)