---
title: View and manage alerts on the Azure portal - Microsoft Defender for IoT
description: Learn about viewing and managing alerts triggered by cloud-connected Microsoft Defender for IoT network sensors on the Azure portal.
ms.date: 12/12/2022
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: enterprise-iot
---

# View and manage alerts from the Azure portal

Microsoft Defender for IoT alerts enhance your network security and operations with real-time details about events logged in your network. This article describes how to manage Microsoft Defender for IoT alerts on the Azure portal, including alerts generated by OT and Enterprise IoT network sensors.

- OT alerts are also available on each [OT network sensor console](how-to-view-alerts.md), or a connected [on-premises management console](how-to-work-with-alerts-on-premises-management-console.md)

- [Integrate with Microsoft Sentinel](iot-solution.md) to view Defender for IoT alerts in Microsoft Sentinel and manage them together with security incidents.

- If you have **Enterprise IoT security** [turned on in Microsoft Defender XDR](eiot-defender-for-endpoint.md), alerts for Enterprise IoT devices detected by Microsoft Defender for Endpoint are available in Defender for Endpoint only.

    For more information, see [Securing IoT devices in the enterprise](concept-enterprise.md) and the [Alerts queue in Microsoft Defender XDR](/microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/alerts-queue-endpoint-detection-response).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The **Alerts** page is currently in **PREVIEW**. See the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/) for additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.

## Prerequisites

- **To have alerts in Defender for IoT**, you must have an [OT](onboard-sensors.md) onboarded, and network data streaming into Defender for IoT.

- **To view alerts on the Azure portal**, you must have access as a [Security Reader](../../role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.md#security-reader), [Security Admin](../../role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.md#security-admin), [Contributor](../../role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.md#contributor), or [Owner](../../role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.md#owner)

- **To manage alerts on the Azure portal**, you must have access as a [Security Admin](../../role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.md#security-admin), [Contributor](../../role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.md#contributor), or [Owner](../../role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.md#owner). Alert management activities include modifying their statuses or severities, *Learning* an alert, or accessing PCAP data.

For more information, see [Azure user roles and permissions for Defender for IoT](roles-azure.md).

## View alerts on the Azure portal

1. In [Defender for IoT](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_IoT_Defender/IoTDefenderDashboard/~/Getting_started) on the Azure portal, select the **Alerts** page on the left. By default, the following details are shown in the grid:

    | Column | Description
    |--|--|
    | **Severity**|  A predefined alert severity assigned by the sensor that you can [modify as needed](#manage-alert-severity-and-status). |
    | **Name** |  The alert title. |
    | **Site** |  The site associated with the sensor that detected the alert, as listed on the [Sites and sensors](how-to-manage-sensors-on-the-cloud.md#sensor-management-options-from-the-azure-portal) page.|
    | **Engine** |  The [Defender for IoT detection engine](architecture.md#defender-for-iot-analytics-engines) that detected the activity and triggered the alert. <br><br>**Note**: A value of **Micro-agent** indicates that the event was triggered by the Defender for IoT [Device Builder](../device-builders/index.yml) platform. |
    | **Last detection** | The last time the alert was detected. <br><br>- If an alert's status is **New**, and the same traffic is seen again, the **Last detection** time is updated for the same alert. <br>- If the alert's status is **Closed** and traffic is seen again, the **Last detection** time is *not* updated, and a new alert is triggered.|
    | **Status** | The alert status: *New*, *Active*, *Closed* <br><br>For more information, see [Alert statuses and triaging options](alerts.md#alert-statuses-and-triaging-options).|
    | **Source device** |The IP address, MAC address, or the name of the device where the traffic that triggered the alert originated.  |
    | **Tactics** | The [MITRE ATT&CK stage](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/ics/). |

    1. To view more details, select the :::image type="icon" source="media/how-to-manage-device-inventory-on-the-cloud/edit-columns-icon.png" border="false"::: **Edit columns** button.

        In the **Edit columns** pane on the right, select **Add Column** and any of the following extra columns:

        | Column | Description
        |--|--|
        | **Source device address** |The IP address of the source device. |
        | **Destination device address** | The IP address of the destination device. |
        | **Destination device** | The destination IP or MAC address, or the destination device name.|
        | **First detection** | The first time the alert was detected in the network. |
        | **ID** |The unique alert ID.|
        | **Last activity** | The last time the alert was changed, including manual updates for severity or status, or automated changes for device updates or device/alert deduplication |
        | **Protocol** | The protocol detected in the network traffic for the alert.|
        | **Sensor** |  The sensor that detected the alert.|
        | **Zone** | The zone assigned to the sensor that detected the alert.|
        | **Category**| The [category](alert-engine-messages.md#supported-alert-categories) associated with the alert, such as *operational issues*, *custom alerts*, or *illegal commands*. |
        | **Type**| The  internal name of the alert. |

### Filter alerts displayed

Use the **Search** box, **Time range**, and **Add filter** options to filter the alerts displayed by specific parameters or to help locate a specific alert.

For example, filter alerts by **Category**:

:::image type="content" source="media/how-to-view-manage-cloud-alerts/category-filter.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Category filter option in Alerts page in the Azure portal." lightbox="media/how-to-view-manage-cloud-alerts/category-filter.png":::

### Group alerts displayed

Use the **Group by** menu at the top-right to collapse the grid into subsections according to specific parameters.

For example, while the total number of alerts appears above the grid, you might want more specific information about alert count breakdown, such as the number of alerts with a specific severity, protocol, or site.

Supported grouping options include *Engine*, *Name*, *Sensor*, *Severity*, and *Site*.

## View details and remediate a specific alert

1. On the **Alerts** page, select an alert in the grid to display more details in the pane on the right. The alert details pane includes the alert description, traffic source and destination, and more.

    Select **View full details** to drill down further. For example:

    :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-view-manage-cloud-alerts/alert-detected.png" alt-text="Screenshot of an alert selected from Alerts page in the Azure portal." lightbox="media/how-to-view-manage-cloud-alerts/alert-detected.png":::

1. The alert details page provides more details about the alert, and a set of remediation steps on the **Take action** tab. For example:

    :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-view-manage-cloud-alerts/alert-full-details.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the alert details page on the Azure portal.":::

## Manage alert severity and status

We recommend that you update alert severity In [Defender for IoT](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_IoT_Defender/IoTDefenderDashboard/~/Getting_started) in the Azure portal as soon as you've triaged an alert so that you can prioritize the riskiest alerts as soon as possible. Make sure to update your alert status once you've taken remediation steps so that the progress is recorded.

You can update both severity and status for a single alert or for a selection of alerts in bulk.

*Learn* an alert to indicate to Defender for IoT that the detected network traffic is authorized. Learned alerts aren't triggered again the next time the same traffic is detected on your network. Learning is supported only for selected alerts, and *unlearning* is supported only from the OT network sensor.

For more information, see [Alert statuses and triaging options](alerts.md#alert-statuses-and-triaging-options).

- **To manage a single alert**:

    1. In Defender for IoT in the Azure portal, select the **Alerts** page on the left, and then select an alert in the grid.
    1. Either on the details pane on the right, or in an alert details page itself, select the new status and/or severity.

- **To manage multiple alerts in bulk**:

    1. In Defender for IoT in the Azure portal, select the **Alerts** page on the left, and then select the alerts in the grid that you want to modify.
    1. Use the :::image type="icon" source="media/how-to-manage-sensors-on-the-cloud/status-icon.png" border="false"::: **Change status** and/or :::image type="icon" source="media/how-to-manage-sensors-on-the-cloud/severity-icon.png" border="false"::: **Change severity** options in the toolbar to update the status and/or the severity for all the selected alerts.

- **To learn one or more alerts**:

    In Defender for IoT in the Azure portal, select the **Alerts** page on the left, and then do one of the following:

  - Select one or more learnable alerts in the grid and then select :::image type="icon" source="media/how-to-manage-sensors-on-the-cloud/learn-icon.png" border="false"::: **Learn** in the toolbar.
  - On an alert details page for a learnable alert, in the **Take Action** tab, select **Learn**.

## Access alert PCAP data

You might want to access raw traffic files, also known as *packet capture files* or *PCAP* files as part of your investigation. If you're a SOC or OT security engineer, access PCAP files directly from the Azure portal to help you investigate faster.

To access raw traffic files for your alert, select **Download PCAP** in the top-left corner of your alert details page.

For example:

:::image type="content" source="media/release-notes/pcap-request.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Download PCAP button." lightbox="media/release-notes/pcap-request.png":::

The portal requests the file from the sensor that detected the alert and downloads it to your Azure storage.

Downloading the PCAP file can take several minutes, depending on the quality of your sensor connectivity.

## Export alerts to a CSV file

You might want to export a selection of alerts to a CSV file for offline sharing and reporting.

1. In [Defender for IoT](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_IoT_Defender/IoTDefenderDashboard/~/Getting_started) on the Azure portal, select the **Alerts** page on the left.

1. Use the search box and filter options to show only the alerts you want to export.

1. In the toolbar above the grid, select **Export** > **Confirm**.

The file is generated, and you're prompted to save it locally.

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Microsoft Defender for IoT alerts](alerts.md)
