---
title: Create trends and statistics reports in Defender for IoT
description: Gain insight into network activity, statistics, and trends by using Defender for IoT Trends and Statistics widgets.
ms.date: 02/01/2022
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Create trends and statistics dashboards

You can create dashboards to get insight into network trends and statistics.

## Dashboards

Dashboard | Details
--- | ---
Channels Bandwidth |
Traffic by Port
Top Traffic by Port
Total Bandwidth
New devices
Modbus Traffic by Function
SRTP Traffic by Service Code
SRTP Erros By Day
DNP3 Traffic By Function
Busy Devices
S7 Traffic by Control Function
S7 Traffic by Sub-Function
OPC-UA Traffic By Service
Active TCP Connections
Incidents By Type
MMS Traffic By Service
IEC-60870 Traffic By ASDU
Devices By Vendor
Devices By OT Protocols
EtherNet/IP Traffic By CIP Service
EtherNet/IP Traffic By CIP Class
EtherNet/IP Traffic By Command
Disconnected Devices
Devices By Operating System
Database Tables Access




## Before you start

You need Administrator or Security Analyst permissions to create dashboards.

T

> [!NOTE]
>  The time in the widgets is set according to the sensor time.

## Create dashboards

You can create many different types of dashboard. Based on traffic, device state, alerts, connectivity, and protocol. 

1. In Defender for IoT, select **Trends & Statistics**.
1. Select **Create Dashboard**.
1. In the **Create Dashboard** dialog, type in a dashboard name, and in the **Dashboard widget type** dropdown menu, select a dashboard type. Each dashboard type has a description, and indicates whether it focuses on operations, security, or traffic.
1. After selecting a dashboard type, by results are displayed for detections over the last seven days. You can use filter tools change this range. 

Each dashboard widget you create contains specific information about traffic, device state, alert information, connectivity status, or protocols. A message indicates if there's no data available for a widget. After setting you a dashboard, you can edit the dashboard name if needed, and add/remove types from the dashboard.


## Examples

This table summarizes examples of use cases for some common widgets.

Widget | Details
--- | ---
Busy devices | Lists the five busiest devices. In **Edit** mode, you can filter by known protocols.
Total bandwidth | Tracks the bandwidth in Mbps (megabits per second). The bandwidth is indicated on the y-axis, with the date appearing on the x-axis. **Edit** mode allows you to filter results.
Channels bandwidth | Displays the top five traffic channels. You can filter by Address, and set the number of Presented Results. Select the down arrow to show more channels.
Traffic by port | Displays the traffic by port, which is indicated by a pie chart with each port designated by a different color. The amount of traffic in each port is proportional to the size of its part of the pie.
New devices | Displays the new devices bar chart, which indicates how many new devices were discovered on a particular date.
Protocol dissection | Displays a pie chart that provides you with a look at the traffic per protocol, dissected by function codes, and services. The size of each slice of the pie is proportional to the amount of traffic relative to the other slices.
Active TCP connections | Displays a chart that shows the number of active TCP connections in the system.
Incident by type | Displays a pie chart that shows the number of incidents by type. This is the number of alerts generated by each engine over a predefined time period.
Devices by vendor | Displays a pie chart that shows the number of devices by vendor. The number of devices for a specific vendor is proportional to the size of that device’s vendor part of the disk relative to other device vendors.
Number of devices per VLAN | Displays a pie chart that shows the number of discovered devices per VLAN. The size of each slice of the pie is proportional to the number of discovered devices relative to the other slices. Each VLAN appears with the VLAN tag assigned by the sensor or name that you have manually added.
Top bandwidth by VLAN | Displays the bandwidth consumption by VLAN. By default, the widget shows five VLANs with the highest bandwidth usage. You can filter the data by the period presented in the widget. Select the down arrow to show more results.


## See also

[Risk assessment reporting](how-to-create-risk-assessment-reports.md)
[Sensor data mining queries](how-to-create-data-mining-queries.md)
[Attack vector reporting](how-to-create-attack-vector-reports.md)
