---
title: Manage subscriptions
description: Subscriptions consist of managed committed devices and can be onboarded or offboarded as needed. 
ms.date: 08/10/2021
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Manage Defender for IoT subscriptions

## About subscriptions

Your Defender for IoT deployment is managed through your Azure Defender for IoT account subscriptions.
You can onboard, edit, and offboard your subscriptions to Defender for IoT from the[ Azure Defender for IoT Portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_IoT_Defender/IoTDefenderDashboard/Getting_Started).

For each subscription, you will be asked to define a number of *committed devices*. Committed devices are the approximate number of devices that will be monitored in your enterprise. 

### Subscription billing

You are billed based on the number of committed devices associated with each subscription.

The billing cycle for Azure Defender for IoT follows a calendar month. Changes you make to committed devices during the  month are implemented one hour after confirming your update, and are reflected in your monthly bill. Subscription *offboarding* also takes effect one hour after confirming the offboard.

Your enterprise may have more than one paying entity. If this is the case you can onboard more than one subscription.

Before you subscribe, you should have a sense of how many devices you would like your subscriptions to cover.

Users can also work with trial subscription, which supports monitoring a limited number of devices for 30 days.
See [Azure Defender pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/azure-defender/) information on committed device prices.

### Before you begin

Before you onboard a subscription, verify that:
- Your Azure account is set up.
- You have the required Azure user permissions.
#### Azure account setup

To get started with Azure Defender for IoT, you must have a Microsoft Azure subscription. If you do not have a subscription, you can sign up for a free account. If you already have access to an Azure subscription, but it isn't listed when subscribing, check your account details and confirm your permissions with the subscription owner.

- If have an account: https://ms.portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Billing/SubscriptionsBlade.

- If you don’t have an account: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/.

#### User permission requirements

Azure **Subscription Owners** and **Subscription Contributor**s can onboard, update, and offboard Azure Defender for IoT subscriptions.

## Onboard a trial subscription

If you would like to evaluate Defender for IoT, you can use a trial subscription. The trial is valid for 30 days and supports 1000 committed devices. Using the trial lets you deploy one more Defender for IoT sensors on your network. Use the sensors to monitor traffic, analyze data, generate alerts, learn about network risks and vulnerabilities, and more. The trial also allows you to download an on-premises management console to view aggregated information generated by sensors.

This section describes how to create a trial subscription for a sensor. 

**To create a trial subscription:**

1. Navigate to the [ Azure Defender for IoT Portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_IoT_Defender/IoTDefenderDashboard/Getting_Started).
1. Select **Getting Started.**
1. Select **Onboard subscription**.
1. In the Pricing page, select **Start with a Trial**.
1. Select a subscription from the Onboard trial subscription pane and then select **Evaluate**.

:::image type="content" source="media/how-to-manage-subscriptions/evaluation_subscription.png" alt-text="use a trial subscription.":::

1. Confirm your evaluation.
1. Onboard a sensor or set up a sensor, if required.

## Onboard a subscription

This section describes how to onboard a subscription.

**To onboard a subscription:**

1. Navigate to the [ Azure Defender for IoT Portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_IoT_Defender/IoTDefenderDashboard/Getting_Started).
1. Select **Getting Started.**
1. Select **Onboard subscription**.
1. In the Pricing page, select **Subscribe**.
1. In the **Onboard subscription** pane, select a subscription and the number of committed devices from the drop-down menu.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-manage-subscriptions/onboard-subscription.png" alt-text="select your  subscription and the number of committed devices.":::

1. Select **Subscribe**.
1. Confirm your subscription.
1. If you have not done so already, onboard a sensor or Set up a sensor.

## Update committed devices in a subscription

You may need to update your subscription with more committed devices, or more fewer committed devices. More devices may require monitoring if, for example, you are increasing existing site coverage, discovered more devices than expected or there are network changes such as adding switches.

**To update a subscription:**
1. Navigate to the [ Azure Defender for IoT Portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_IoT_Defender/IoTDefenderDashboard/Getting_Started).
1. Select **Onboard subscription**.
1. Select the subscription, and then select the three dots. (...).
1. Select **Edit**.
1. Update the committed devices and select **Save**.
2. In the confirmation dialog box that opens, select **Confirm.**
Changes in device commitment will take effect one hour after confirming the change. Billing for these changes will be reflected at the beginning of the month following confirmation of the change.

You will need to upload a new activation file to your on-premises management console. The activation file reflects the new number of committed devices. See[Upload an activation file](how-to-manage-the-on-premises-management-console.md#upload-an-activation-file).
## Offboard a subscription

You may need to offboard a subscription, for example if you TBD. Subscription offboarding takes effect one hour after confirming the offboard.
Your upcoming monthly bill will reflect this change.

Remove all sensors that are associated with the subscription prior to offboarding. For more information on how to delete a sensor, see [Delete a sensor](how-to-manage-sensors-on-the-cloud.md#delete-a-sensor). 

**To offboard a subscription:**

1. Navigate to the [ Azure Defender for IoT Portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_IoT_Defender/IoTDefenderDashboard/Getting_Started).
1. Select the subscription, and then select the three dots. (...).

1. Select **Offboard subscription**.

1. In the confirmation popup, select the checkbox to confirm you have deleted all sensors associated with the subscription.

    :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-manage-sensors-on-the-cloud/offboard-popup.png" alt-text="Select the checkbox and select offboard to offboard your sensor.":::

1. Select **Offboard**.

## Apply a new subscription

Business considerations may require that you apply a different subscription to your deployment than the one currently being used. If you change the subscription, you will need to upload a new sensor activation file. The file contains information on subscription expiration dates.

**To apply a new subscription:**

1. Delete the subscription currently being used.
1. Select a new subscription.
1. Download an activation file for the sensor associated with the subscription.
1. Upload the activation file to the sensor.

## Next steps

- [Manage sensors in the Defender for IoT portal](how-to-manage-sensors-on-the-cloud.md)

- [Activate and set up your on-premises management console](how-to-activate-and-set-up-your-on-premises-management-console.md)
