---
title: Monitoring Azure AI Video Indexer
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure AI Video Indexer
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: azure-video-indexer
ms.custom: subject-monitoring
ms.date: 12/19/2022
ms.author: inhenkel
author: itnorman
---

# Monitoring Azure AI Video Indexer

[!INCLUDE [AMS AVI retirement announcement](./includes/important-ams-retirement-avi-announcement.md)]

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation. 

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure AI Video Indexer. Azure AI Video Indexer uses [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md). If you are unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md).

Some services in Azure have a special focused pre-built monitoring dashboard in the Azure portal that provides a starting point for monitoring your service. These special dashboards are called "insights".

> [!NOTE]
> The monitoring feature is not available for trial and classic accounts. To update to an ARM account, see [Connect a classic account to ARM](connect-classic-account-to-arm.md) or [Import content from a trial account](import-content-from-trial.md).

## Monitoring data 

Azure AI Video Indexer collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md#monitoring-data-from-azure-resources). 

See [Monitoring *Azure AI Video Indexer* data reference](monitor-video-indexer-data-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs metrics created by Azure AI Video Indexer.

## Collection and routing

Activity logs are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

Resource Logs are not collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for *Azure AI Video Indexer* are listed in [Azure AI Video Indexer monitoring data reference](monitor-video-indexer-data-reference.md#resource-logs).

| Category | Description  |
|:---|:---|
|Audit | Read/Write operations|
|Indexing Logs| Monitor the indexing process from upload to indexing and Re-indexing when needed|

:::image type="content" source="./media/monitor/toc-diagnostics-save.png" alt-text="Screenshot of diagnostic settings." lightbox="./media/monitor/toc-diagnostics-save.png":::

:::image type="content" source="./media/monitor/diagnostics-settings-destination.png" alt-text="Screenshot of where to send lots." lightbox="./media/monitor/diagnostics-settings-destination.png":::

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics

Currently Azure AI Video Indexer does not support monitoring of metrics. 

## Analyzing logs

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema.md) The schema for Azure AI Video Indexer resource logs is found in the [Azure AI Video Indexer Data Reference](monitor-video-indexer-data-reference.md#schemas) 

The [Activity log](../azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log.md) is a type of platform sign-in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.  

For a list of the types of resource logs collected for Azure AI Video Indexer, see [Monitoring Azure AI Video Indexer data reference](monitor-video-indexer-data-reference.md#resource-logs)  

For a list of the tables used by Azure Monitor Logs and queryable by Log Analytics, see [Monitoring Azure AI Video Indexer data reference](monitor-video-indexer-data-reference.md#azure-monitor-logs-tables)

### Sample Kusto queries

#### Audit related sample queries

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you select **Logs** from the Azure AI Video Indexer account menu, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current Azure AI Video Indexer account. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other Azure AI Video Indexer account or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](../azure-monitor/logs/scope.md) for details.

Following are queries that you can use to help you monitor your Azure AI Video Indexer account.  

```kusto
// Project failures summarized by operationName and Upn, aggregated in 30m windows.
VIAudit
| where Status == "Failure"
| summarize count() by OperationName, bin(TimeGenerated, 30m), Upn
| render timechart  
```

```kusto
// Project failures with detailed error message.
VIAudit
| where  Status == "Failure"
| parse Description with "ErrorType: " ErrorType ". Message: " ErrorMessage ". Trace" *
| project TimeGenerated, OperationName, ErrorMessage, ErrorType, CorrelationId, _ResourceId
```

#### Indexing realted sample queries

```kusto
// Display Video Indexer Account logs of all failed indexing operations. 
VIIndexing
// | where AccountId == "<AccountId>"  // to filter on a specific accountId, uncomment this line
| where Status == "Failure"
| summarize count() by bin(TimeGenerated, 1d)
| render columnchart
```

```kusto
// Video Indexer top 10 users by operations 
// Render timechart of top 10 users by operations, with an optional account id for filtering. 
// Trend of top 10 active Upn's
VIIndexing
// | where AccountId == "<AccountId>"  // to filter on a specific accountId, uncomment this line
| where OperationName in ("IndexingStarted", "ReindexingStarted")
| summarize count() by Upn
| top 10 by count_ desc
| project Upn
| join (VIIndexing
| where TimeGenerated > ago(30d)
| where OperationName in ("IndexingStarted", "ReindexingStarted")
| summarize count() by Upn, bin(TimeGenerated,1d)) on Upn
| project TimeGenerated, Upn, count_
| render timechart
```

## Alerts

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric-overview.md), [logs](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-unified-log.md), and the [activity log](../azure-monitor/alerts/activity-log-alerts.md). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks.

The following table lists common and recommended alert rules for Azure AI Video Indexer.

| Alert type | Condition | Description  |
|:---|:---|:---|
| Log Alert|Failed operation |Send an alert when an upload failed |

```kusto
//All failed uploads, aggregated in one hour window.
VIAudit
| where OperationName == "Upload-Video" and Status == "Failure"
| summarize count() by bin(TimeGenerated, 1h)
```

## Next steps

- See [Monitoring Azure AI Video Indexer data reference](monitor-video-indexer-data-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure AI Video Indexer account.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md) for details on monitoring Azure resources.
