---
title: Azure Defender for App Service - the benefits and features
description: Learn about the benefits and features of Azure Defender for App Service.
author: memildin
ms.author: memildin
ms.date: 9/12/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: security-center
manager: rkarlin

---

# Introduction to Azure Defender for App Service

> [!NOTE]
> This service is not currently available in Azure government and sovereign cloud regions.


## Protecting your Azure App Service web apps and APIs

Security Center uses the scale of the cloud to identify attacks targeting applications running over App Service. Attackers probe web applications to find and exploit weaknesses. Before being routed to specific environments, requests to applications running in Azure go through several gateways, where they're inspected and logged. This data is then used to identify exploits and attackers, and to learn new patterns that will be used later.

By using the visibility that Azure has as a cloud provider, Security Center analyzes App Service internal logs to identify attack methodology on multiple targets. For example, methodology includes widespread scanning and distributed attacks. This type of attack typically comes from a small subset of IPs, and shows patterns of crawling to similar endpoints on multiple hosts. The attacks are searching for a vulnerable page or plugin, and can't be identified from the standpoint of a single host.


## Windows-based App Service protections

If you're running a Windows-based App Service plan, Security Center also has access to the underlying sandboxes and VMs. Together with the log data mentioned above, the infrastructure can tell the story, from a new attack circulating in the wild to compromises in customer machines. Therefore, even if Security Center is deployed after a web app has been exploited, it may be able to detect ongoing attacks.


## Next steps

In this article, you learned about Azure Defender for App Service. 

For related material, see the following articles: 

- Whether an alert is generated by Security Center, or received by Security Center from a different security product, you can export it. To export your alerts to Azure Sentinel, any third-party SIEM, or any other external tool, follow the instructions in [Exporting alerts to a SIEM](continuous-export.md).
- For a list of the Azure App Service alerts, see the [Reference table of alerts](alerts-reference.md#alerts-azureappserv).
- For more information on App Service plans, see [App Service plans](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/app-service/plans/).
- > [!div class="nextstepaction"]
    > [Enable Azure Defender](security-center-pricing.md)