---
title: Azure Defender for Key Vault- the benefits and features
description: Learn about the benefits and features of Azure Defender for Key Vault.
author: memildin
ms.author: memildin
ms.date: 9/12/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: security-center
manager: rkarlin

---

# Introduction to Azure Defender for Key Vault

> [!NOTE]
> This service is not currently available in Azure government and sovereign cloud regions.

Azure Key Vault is a cloud service that safeguards encryption keys and secrets like certificates, connection strings, and passwords. 

Enable **Azure Defender for Key Vault** for Azure-native, advanced threat protection for Azure Key Vault, providing an additional layer of security intelligence. 

Azure Defender detects unusual and potentially harmful attempts to access or exploit Key Vault accounts. This layer of protection allows you to address threats without being a security expert, and without the need to manage third-party security monitoring systems.  

When anomalous activities occur, Azure Defender shows alerts and optionally sends them via email to relevant members of your organization. These alerts include the details of the suspicious activity and recommendations on how to investigate and remediate threats. 

## Enable Azure Defender for Key Vault

By default, advanced threat protection is enabled for all of your Key Vault accounts when you enable Azure Defender.

## Disable Azure Defender for Key Vault

To disable the protection for a specific subscription:

1. From Security Center's menu, select **Pricing & settings**.

1. Select the subscription with the storage accounts for which you want to enable or disable **Azure Defender for Key Vault**.

1. In the **Azure Defender Plans** section, toggle the plan to **Off**

    :::image type="content" source="./media/advanced-threat-protection-key-vault/disable-defender-key-plan.png" alt-text="Disabling Azure Defender for Key Vault":::

1. Select **Save**.


## Next steps

In this article, you learned about Azure Defender for Key Vault.

For related material, see the following articles: 

- [Key Vault security alerts](alerts-reference.md#alerts-azurekv)--The Key Vault section of the reference table for all Azure Security Center alerts
- Whether an alert is generated by Security Center, or received by Security Center from a different security product, you can export it. To export your alerts to Azure Sentinel, any third-party SIEM, or any other external tool, follow the instructions in [Exporting alerts to a SIEM](continuous-export.md).