---
title: Azure Defender for Resource Manager - the benefits and features
description: Learn about the benefits and features of Azure Defender for Resource Manager
author: memildin
ms.author: memildin
ms.date: 07/14/2021
ms.topic: overview
ms.service: security-center
manager: rkarlin

---

# Introduction to Azure Defender for Resource Manager

[Azure Resource Manager](../azure-resource-manager/management/overview.md) is the deployment and management service for Azure. It provides a management layer that enables you to create, update, and delete resources in your Azure account. You use management features, like access control, locks, and tags, to secure and organize your resources after deployment.

The cloud management layer is a crucial service connected to all your cloud resources. Because of this, it is also a potential target for attackers. Consequently, we recommend security operations teams monitor the resource management layer closely. 

Azure Defender for Resource Manager automatically monitors the resource management operations in your organization, whether they're performed through the Azure portal, Azure REST APIs, Azure CLI, or other Azure programmatic clients. Azure Defender runs advanced security analytics to detect threats and alerts you about suspicious activity.

## Availability

|Aspect|Details|
|----|:----|
|Release state:|General Availability (GA)|
|Pricing:|**Azure Defender for Resource Manager** is billed as shown on [Security Center pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/security-center/)|
|Clouds:|:::image type="icon" source="./media/icons/yes-icon.png"::: Commercial clouds<br>:::image type="icon" source="./media/icons/yes-icon.png"::: US Gov<br>:::image type="icon" source="./media/icons/yes-icon.png"::: Azure China|
|||

## What are the benefits of Azure Defender for Resource Manager?

Azure Defender for Resource Manager protects against issues including:

- **Suspicious resource management operations**, such as operations from malicious IP addresses, disabling antimalware and suspicious scripts running in VM extensions
- **Use of exploitation toolkits** like Microburst or PowerZure
- **Lateral movement** from the Azure management layer to the Azure resources data plane

:::image type="content" source="media/defender-for-resource-manager-introduction/consistent-management-layer-with-defender.png" alt-text="Azure Resource Manager overview diagram.":::

A full list of the alerts provided by Azure Defender for Resource Manager is on the [alerts reference page](alerts-reference.md#alerts-resourcemanager).


 ## How to investigate alerts from Azure Defender for Resource Manager

Security alerts from Azure Defender for Resource Manager are based on threats detected by monitoring Azure Resource Manager operations. Azure Defender uses internal log sources of Azure Resource Manager as well as Azure Activity log, a platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events.

Learn more about [Azure Activity log](../azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log.md).

To investigate security alerts from Azure Defender for Resource Manager:

1. Open Azure Activity log.

    :::image type="content" source="media/defender-for-resource-manager-introduction/opening-azure-activity-log.png" alt-text="How to open Azure Activity log.":::

1. Filter the events to:
    - The subscription mentioned in the alert
    - The timeframe of the detected activity
    - The related user account (if relevant)

1. Look for suspicious activities.

> [!TIP]
> For a better, richer investigation experience, stream your Azure activity logs to Azure Sentinel as described in [Connect data from Azure Activity log](../sentinel/connect-azure-activity.md).



## Next steps

In this article, you learned about Azure Defender for Resource Manager. For related material, see the following article: 

- Security alerts might be generated by Security Center or received by Security Center from different security products. To export all of these alerts to Azure Sentinel, any third-party SIEM, or any other external tool, follow the instructions in [Exporting alerts to a SIEM](continuous-export.md).

- > [!div class="nextstepaction"]
    > [Enable Azure Defender](enable-azure-defender.md)