---
title: Threat detection for data services in Azure Security Center | Microsoft Docs
description: This article presents the data services alerts available in Azure Security Center.
services: security-center
documentationcenter: na
author: memildin
manager: rkarlin

ms.assetid: da960861-0b6c-4d80-932d-898cdebb4f83
ms.service: security-center
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 07/24/2019
ms.author: memildin
---
# Threat detection for data services in Azure Security Center

 Azure Security Center analyzes the logs of data storage services, and triggers alerts when it detects a threat to your data resources. This article lists the alerts that Security Center generates for the following services:

* [Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Data Warehouse](#data-sql)
* [Azure Storage](#azure-storage)
* [Azure Cosmos DB](#cosmos-db)

## SQL Database and SQL Data Warehouse <a name="data-sql"></a>

SQL threat detection identifies anomalous activities indicating unusual and potentially harmful attempts to access or exploit databases. 

For a list of the SQL Database and SQL Data Warehouse  alerts, see the [Reference table of alerts](alerts-reference.md#alerts-sql-db-and-warehouse).

For more information about SQL threat detection alerts, see [Azure SQL Database threat detection](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sql-database/sql-database-threat-detection-overview). In particular, review the threat detection alerts section. Also see [How Azure Security Center helps reveal a cyberattack](https://azure.microsoft.com/blog/how-azure-security-center-helps-reveal-a-cyberattack/) to view an example of how Security Center used malicious SQL activity detection to discover an attack.

## Azure Storage <a name="azure-storage"></a>

Advanced Threat Protection for Storage (currently available for Blob storage only) provides an additional layer of security intelligence that detects unusual and potentially harmful attempts to access or exploit storage accounts. This layer of protection allows you to address threats without requiring you to be a security expert, and to manage security monitoring systems.

Security Center analyzes diagnostic logs of read, write, and delete requests to Blob storage to detect threats, and it triggers alerts when anomalies in activity occur. For more information, see [Configure Storage Analytics logging](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/common/storage-monitor-storage-account#configure-logging).

For a list of the Azure Storage alerts, see the [Reference table of alerts](alerts-reference.md#alerts-azurestorage).

>[!NOTE]
>Advanced Threat Protection for Storage is currently not available in Azure government and sovereign cloud regions.

For more information about the alerts for storage, see [Advanced Threat Protection for Azure Storage](../storage/common/storage-advanced-threat-protection.md). In particular, review the "Protection alerts" section.

## Azure Cosmos DB<a name="cosmos-db"></a>

The Azure Cosmos DB alerts are generated by unusual and potentially harmful attempts to access or exploit Azure Cosmos DB accounts.

For a list of the Azure Cosmos DB alerts, see the [Reference table of alerts](alerts-reference.md#alerts-azurecosmos).

For more information, see [Advanced Threat Protection for Azure Cosmos DB (Preview)](../cosmos-db/cosmos-db-advanced-threat-protection.md).
