---
title: Threat detection alerts from Azure security products in Azure Security Center
description: This topic presents the Azure security products from which Azure Security Center can display threat alerts
services: security-center
documentationcenter: na
author: memildin
manager: rkarlin
ms.assetid: ad4b0373-08ee-46ca-a573-638ed93a647c
ms.service: security-center
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 01/12/2020
ms.author: memildin
---
# Threat detection alerts from Azure WAF and Azure DDoS Protection

Azure Security Center can display and collect threat detection alerts generated by the following Azure security products, (a separate license for each product is required):

* [Azure WAF](#azure-waf)
* [Azure DDoS Protection](#azure-ddos)

## Azure WAF <a name="azure-waf"></a>

Azure Application Gateway offers a web application firewall (WAF) that provides centralized protection of your web applications from common exploits and vulnerabilities.

Web applications are increasingly targeted by malicious attacks that exploit commonly known vulnerabilities. The Application Gateway WAF is based on Core Rule Set 3.0 or 2.2.9 from the Open Web Application Security Project. The WAF is updated automatically to protect against new vulnerabilities, with no additional configuration needed. WAF alerts are streamed to Security Center. For more information on the alerts generated by WAF, see [Web application firewall CRS rule groups and rules](../web-application-firewall/ag/application-gateway-crs-rulegroups-rules.md?tabs=owasp31#crs911-31).

## Azure DDoS Protection <a name="azure-ddos"></a>

Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks are known to be easy to execute. They have become a great security concern, particularly if you are moving your applications to the cloud. 

A DDoS attack attempts to exhaust an application’s resources, making the application unavailable to legitimate users. DDoS attacks can target any endpoint that can be reached through the internet.

Azure DDoS Protection, combined with application design best practices, provide a defense against DDoS attacks. DDoS Protection provides different service tiers. For more information, see [Azure DDoS Protection overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/ddos-protection-overview).

For a list of the Azure DDoS Protection alerts, see the [Reference table of alerts](alerts-reference.md#alerts-azureddos).