---
title: Integrating Azure Security Center alerts with Azure log integration | Microsoft Docs
description: This article helps you get started with integrating Security Center alerts with Azure log integration.
services: security-center
documentationcenter: na
author: TerryLanfear
manager: MBaldwin
editor: ''

ms.assetid: d2d088d3-d38d-47ff-a062-c78e0fd59226
ms.service: security-center
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: na
ms.date: 03/23/2017
ms.author: terrylan

---
# Integrating Azure Security Center alerts with Azure log integration
Many security operations and incident response teams rely on a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) solution as the starting point for triaging and investigating security alerts. With Azure Log Integration, you can integrate Azure Security Center alerts with your SIEM solution.

Azure log integration currently supports HP ArcSight, Splunk, and IBM QRadar.

## What logs can I integrate?
Azure produces extensive logging for every service. These logs are categorized as:

* **Control/Management logs** that give visibility into the Azure Resource Manager CREATE, UPDATE, and DELETE operations. These control plane events are surfaced in the Azure Activity Logs
* **Data Plane logs** that give visibility into the events raised when using an Azure resource. An example is the Windows Event log, where you can get security event information from the Event Viewer's Security Channel. Data plane events (which are generated by a virtual machine or an Azure service) are surfaced by Azure Diagnostic Logs.

Azure log integration currently supports the integration of:

* Azure VM logs
* Azure Audit Logs
* Azure Security Center alerts

## Install Azure log integration
Download [Azure log integration](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=53324).

The Azure log integration service collects telemetry data from the machine on which it is installed.  Telemetry data collected is:

* Exceptions that occur during execution of Azure log integration
* Metrics about the number of queries and events processed
* Statistics about which Azlog.exe command line options are being used

> [!NOTE]
> You can turn off collection of telemetry data by unchecking this option.
>
>

## Integrate Azure Audit Logs and Security Center alerts
1. Open the command prompt and **cd** into **c:\Program Files\Microsoft Azure Log Integration**.
2. Run the **azlog createazureid** command to create an [Azure Active Directory Service Principal](../active-directory/active-directory-application-objects.md) in the Azure Active Directory (AD) tenants that host the Azure subscriptions.

    You are prompted for your Azure login.

   > [!NOTE]
   > You must be the subscription Owner or a Co-Administrator of the subscription.
   >
   >

    Authentication to Azure is done through Azure AD.  Creating a service principal for Azure log integration creates the Azure AD identity that is given access to read from Azure subscriptions.
3. Run the **azlog authorize <SubscriptionID>** command to assign Reader access on the subscription to the service principal created in step 2. If you don’t specify a **SubscriptionID**, then the service principal is assigned the Reader role to all subscriptions to which you have access.

   > [!NOTE]
   > You may see warnings if you run the **authorize** command immediately after the **createazureid** command. There is some latency between when the Azure AD account is created and when the account is available for use. If you wait about 10 seconds after running the **createazureid** command to run the **authorize** command, then you should not see these warnings.
   >
   >
4. Check the following folders to confirm that the Audit log JSON files are there:

   * **c:\Users\azlog\AzureResourceManagerJson**
   * **c:\Users\azlog\AzureResourceManagerJsonLD**
5. Check the following folders to confirm that Security Center alerts exist in them:

   * **c:\Users\azlog\ AzureSecurityCenterJson**
   * **c:\Users\azlog\AzureSecurityCenterJsonLD**
6. Configure the SIEM file forwarder connector to the appropriate folder. The procedure will vary based on the SIEM you are using.

## Next steps
To learn more about Azure Activity Logs and property definitions, see:

* [Audit operations with Resource Manager](../azure-resource-manager/resource-group-audit.md)

To learn more about Security Center, see the following:

* [Managing and responding to security alerts in Azure Security Center](security-center-managing-and-responding-alerts.md) — Learn how to manage and respond to security alerts.
* [Azure Security Center FAQ](security-center-faq.md) — Find frequently asked questions about using the service.
* [Azure Security blog](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/azuresecurity/) — Get the latest Azure security news and information.
