---
title: Alert response tutorial - Azure Security Center
description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how to triage security alerts and determine the root cause & scope of an alert.
services: security-center
documentationcenter: na
author: memildin
manager: rkarlin
ms.assetid: 181e3695-cbb8-4b4e-96e9-c4396754862f
ms.service: security-center
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.custom: mvc
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: na
ms.date: 09/30/2020
ms.author: memildin
---

# Tutorial: Triage, investigate, and respond to security alerts
Security Center continuously analyzes your hybrid cloud workloads using advanced analytics and threat intelligence to alert you to malicious activity. You can also integrate alerts from other security products and services into Security Center, and create custom alerts based on your own indicators or intelligence sources. Once an alert is generated, swift action is needed to investigate and remediate. 

In this tutorial, you will learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Triage security alerts
> * Investigate a security alert to determine the root cause
> * Respond to a security alert and mitigate that root cause

If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/) before you begin.

## Prerequisites
To step through the features covered in this tutorial, you must have Azure Defender enabled. You can try Azure Defender at no cost. To learn more, see the [pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/security-center/). The quickstart [Get started with Security Center](security-center-get-started.md) walks you through how to upgrade.


## Triage security alerts
Security Center provides a unified view of all security alerts. Security alerts are ranked based on the severity of the detected activity. 

Triage your alerts from the **Security alerts** page:

:::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-security-incident/alerts-list.png" alt-text="Security alerts list page" lightbox="./media/tutorial-security-incident/alerts-list.png":::

Use this page to review the active security alerts in your environment to decide which alert to investigate first.

When triaging security alerts, prioritize alerts based on the alert severity by addressing alerts with higher severity first. Learn more about alerts severity in [How are alerts classified?](security-center-alerts-overview.md#how-are-alerts-classified).

> [!TIP]
> You can connect Azure Security Center to most popular SIEM solutions including Azure Sentinel and consume the alerts from your tool of choice. Learn more in [Exporting alerts to a SIEM](continuous-export.md).


## Investigate a security alert

When you've decided which alert to investigate first:

1. Select the desired alert.
1. From the alert overview page, select the resource to investigate first.
1. Begin your investigation from the left pane, which shows the high-level information about the security alert.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-security-incident/alert-details-left-pane.png" alt-text="The left pane of the alert details page highlighting the high-level information":::

    This pane shows:
    - Alert severity, status, and activity time
    - Description that explains the precise activity that was detected
    - Affected resources
    - Kill chain intent of the activity on the MITRE ATT&CK matrix

1. For more detailed information that can help you investigate the suspicious activity, examine the **Alert details** tab.

1. When you've reviewed the information on this page, you may have enough to proceed with a response. If you need further details:

    - Contact the resource owner to verify whether the detected activity is a false positive.
    - Investigate the raw logs generated by the attacked resource

## Respond to a security alert
After investigating an alert and understanding its scope, you can respond to security alert from within Azure Security Center:

1.	Open the **Take action** tab to see the recommended responses.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-security-incident/alert-details-take-action.png" alt-text="Security alerts take details tab" lightbox="./media/tutorial-security-incident/alert-details-take-action.png":::

1.	Review the **Mitigate the threat** section for the manual investigation steps necessary to mitigate the issue.
1.	To harden your resources and prevent future attacks of this kind, remediate the security recommendations in the **Prevent future attacks** section.
1.	To trigger a logic app with automated response steps, use the **Trigger automated response** section.
1.	If the detected activity isn’t malicious, you can suppress future alerts of this kind using the **Suppress similar alerts** section.

## Classify a security alert
After investigating and responding to a security alert, the final stage is to *classify* the alert.

1.	To indicate that you've handed an alert, change the status to **Dismissed**.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-security-incident/set-status-dismissed.png" alt-text="Setting an alert's status":::

    This removes the alert from the main alerts list. You can use the filter from the alerts list page to view all alerts with **Dismissed** status.

1.	Mark the alert as **Useful** or **Not useful**, and add a reason and comment.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/tutorial-security-incident/alert-feedback.png" alt-text="Provide feedback to Microsoft on the usefulness of an alert":::

    > [!TIP]
    > Microsoft reviews your feedback to improve our algorithms and provide better security alerts.

## Clean-up resources

Other quickstarts and tutorials in this collection build upon this quickstart. If you plan to continue to work with subsequent quickstarts and tutorials, keep automatic provisioning and Azure Defender enabled. If you do not plan to continue or wish to disable Azure Defender:

1. Return to the Security Center main menu and select **Pricing and settings**.
1. Select the subscription that you want to downgrade.
1. Set **Azure Defender** to Off.
1. Select **Save**.

If you wish to disable automatic provisioning:

1. Return to the Security Center main menu and select **Security policy**.
2. Select the subscription that on which to disable automatic provisioning.
3. Under **Security policy – Data Collection**, select **Off** under **Onboarding** to disable automatic provisioning.
4. Select **Save**.

>[!NOTE]
> Disabling automatic provisioning does not remove the Log Analytics agent from Azure VMs where the agent has been provisioned. Disabling automatic provisioning limits security monitoring for your resources.
>

## Next steps
In this tutorial, you learned about Security Center features to be used when responding to a security incident, such as:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Security incident which is an aggregation of related alerts for a resource
> * Investigation map which is a graphical representation of the entities connected to a security alert or incident
> * Search capabilities to find more evidence of compromised systems