---
title: Jetpack Reference
description: Read reference information about the Jetpack tool in Azure CycleCloud. Jetpack provides node configuration, distributed synchronization, and HealthCheck.
author: staer
ms.date: 06/10/2025
ms.author: adjohnso
---

# Jetpack

You need Jetpack on every node of a cluster. Azure CycleCloud automatically installs Jetpack on each virtual machine that you provision to become a node in a cluster. Jetpack provides three main functions:

* **Node Configuration** - CycleCloud uses scripts and [Chef](https://www.chef.io) to automate the configuration of a provisioned VM into a working cluster node. A Chef client and the necessary resources for the configuration of the VM are embedded within Jetpack.
* **Distributed Synchronization** - Jetpack manages communication between the node and the CycleCloud application server. This management enables CycleCloud to monitor the status of the provisioning VMs and synchronize the orchestration of multiple nodes in the cluster.
* **HealthCheck** - Jetpack uses [HealthCheck](./how-to/healthcheck.md) to determine the health of VMs so that it can terminate unhealthy VMs.

## Jetpack Installation

The Jetpack installer is cached in your Azure Storage Account when you first start a cluster using CycleCloud. As cluster VMs are provisioned, a [custom script extension](/azure/virtual-machines/extensions/overview) is executed as part of the boot process. This extension downloads the Jetpack installer from your Azure Storage cache and then installs it on the VM.

The Jetpack installer:

* Unpacks the Jetpack files to a single directory tree:
  * Windows: _C:\cycle\jetpack_
  * Linux: _/opt/cycle/Jetpack_
* Creates system init startup scripts that configure a VM as a cluster node
* Installs the [HealthCheck](#healthcheck) service
* Installs the [Jetpack Command Line Tool](#jetpack-command-line-tool) to:
  * Windows: _C:\cycle\jetpack\bin\jetpack_
  * Linux: _/opt/cycle/jetpack/bin/jetpack_
* Creates [udev](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/) rules on Linux
* Sets the environment variable `CYCLECLOUD_HOME`

> [!NOTE] 
> If Jetpack is [preinstalled on the image](./how-to/install-jetpack.md), the custom script extension **doesn't** reinstall Jetpack. Instead, it runs an initialization step that validates the node's connection to CycleCloud and starts the `healthcheck` and `jetpackd` services before continuing to configure the node.

## Jetpack Subdirectories

| Directory | Description  |
| --------- | ------------ |
| `bin`     | Useful binaries and scripts. |
| `config`  | User-defined and cluster-defined configuration files and scripts. |
| `logs`    | Logs generated by joining a cluster and converging the node. Of particular interest is the *chef-client.log*, which contains the results from converging Chef recipes. |
| `run`     | Runtime files generated by the system. We don't recommend directly accessing these files. |
| `system`  | Internal files. We don't recommend directly using any files in this directory as they can significantly change from release to release.  |

## HealthCheck

The HealthCheck service executes user-defined scripts to determine a VM's current viability as a cluster node. For more information, see the [HealthCheck](./how-to/healthcheck.md) documentation.

## Jetpack Command Line Tool

The **Jetpack** command-line tool provides a useful set of subcommands for manipulating the current VM and interacting with Azure CycleCloud.

| Command             | Description                                              |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `jetpack autoscale` | Autoscale the cluster this node belongs to.              |
| `jetpack config`    | Retrieve a configuration value.                          |
| `jetpack converge`  | Execute a Chef converge.                                 |
| `jetpack download`  | Download a blob resource from a project in Azure Storage.|
| `jetpack keepalive` | Delay system termination by the HealthCheck Service.     |
| `jetpack log`       | Log a message to CycleCloud cluster UI.                  |
| `jetpack run_on_shutdown` | Add a script to call before node termination. |
| `jetpack send`      | Send an arbitrary AMQP message to the CycleCloud server. |
| `jetpack shutdown`  | Request the shutdown of the VM by CycleCloud.            |
| `jetpack test`      | Run tests associated with projects assigned to the VM.   |
| `jetpack users`     | List users that CycleCloud manages on this VM.           |
| `jetpack report_issue` | Archives log files from VM to Azure Storage            |

### jetpack autoscale

Use `jetpack autoscale` to set the autoscaling targets for the cluster that the node belongs to. You can scale clusters by cores, instance count, or custom definitions.

To scale to 100 cores:

```console
jetpack autoscale --corecount=100
```

To scale the 'gpu' nodearray to five nodes:

```console
jetpack autoscale --instancecount 5 --name=gpu
```

To customize autoscale, write a JSON file to disk that contains the nodearray definition you want to scale. To scale by 100 cores:

```json
[
  {
      "Name": "execute",
      "TargetCoreCount": 100
  }
]
```

```console
jetpack autoscale --file=custom-autoscale.json
```

### jetpack config

Use `jetpack config` to fetch information that CycleCloud passes into a VM. It exposes:

* all the system properties made available via [Ohai](https://docs.chef.io/ohai/)
* a subset of the VM's [Azure metadata](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/instance-metadata-service)
* information about the parent CycleCloud cluster.

### jetpack converge

`jetpack converge` command downloads all CycleCloud projects associated with the node and starts a Chef converge process that runs all the Chef recipes and cluster-init scripts for the node.

### jetpack download

`jetpack download` command downloads a blob that you uploaded with a [project](~/articles/cyclecloud/how-to/projects.md) to the node. You must specify the project the blob belongs to.

To download the blob big-file.zip that you uploaded as part of the `example-project` project to the current directory:

```console
jetpack download --project example-project big-file.zip .
```

### jetpack keepalive

`jetpack keepalive` command interacts with the HealthCheck service to delay the termination of the VM due to a failing HealthCheck. You can set the delay to a fixed period or indefinitely. By default, the command delays termination for one hour.

To delay system termination by one hour:

```console
jetpack keepalive
```

To delay system termination by six hours:

```console
jetpack keepalive 6h
```

To disable the HealthCheck service entirely, that is, to delay termination indefinitely:

```console
jetpack keepalive forever
```

> [!NOTE] 
> Only the `forever` option is available for HealthCheck on Windows VMs.

### jetpack log

`jetpack log` sends a log message back to CycleCloud. The message appears in the application server log (typically _/opt/cycle_server/cycle_server.log_), the main event log, and the Cluster UI page.

Each message has two properties: `level` and `priority`.

The `level` property indicates the type of message. Valid levels are `info`, `warn`, and `error`. The level doesn't indicate the importance of a given message. For example, some errors are trivial and some informational messages critical.

Priority indicates the importance of the message. Valid **priority** values are 'low', 'medium', and 'high'. Only messages with a priority of medium or higher are displayed on the Cluster UI page to avoid flooding the page with low priority messages.

To send an informational log message that appears on the Cluster UI page:

```console
jetpack log 'system is now ready'
```

To send a low-priority log message that you don't want to appear on the Cluster UI page:

```console
jetpack log 'system is now ready' --priority low
```

By default, messages with a level of *error* have a high priority. To send an
error message:

```console
jetpack log 'the machine cannot process jobs' --level error
```

To send a trivial error message:

```console
jetpack log 'the machine cannot process jobs' --level error --priority low
```

### jetpack run_on_shutdown

The `jetpack run_on_shutdown` command registers a bash script to call before node termination.

The command takes the absolute path to the script as an argument.

When Azure terminates the node and [Termination Notifications](./how-to/scheduled-events.md#terminate-notification) are enabled, Jetpack receives notification of the termination. It attempts to run the script before the node shuts down.

Nodes *must* enable [Termination Notifications](./how-to/scheduled-events.md#terminate-notification) to enable `run_on_shutdown`. 

```console
jetpack run_on_shutdown /tmp/example.sh
```

This command isn't supported for Windows nodes.

### jetpack send

`jetpack send` sends an AMQP message to CycleCloud. It's an advanced command that we don't recommend unless you're developing plugins for CycleCloud.

You can send arbitrary strings or files with specified AMQP routing keys.

### jetpack shutdown

Use `jetpack shutdown` to request that CycleCloud terminate the node. You can pass options to the command to specify the reason for the shutdown request (idle vs unhealthy) and how to terminate the node (terminate vs deallocate).

To shut down an unhealthy node, use the following command:

```console
jetpack shutdown --unhealthy
```

To deallocate the node:

```console
jetpack shutdown --deallocate
```

### jetpack test

Use `jetpack test` to run any tests that are included with [projects](~/articles/cyclecloud/how-to/projects.md) assigned to the node. The command prints the results to stdout.

### jetpack users

`jetpack users` lists the users that CycleCloud manages on the node. This list can change over time as users are assigned and removed to the cluster.

To get a user-friendly printout of the users assigned to the node:

```console
$ jetpack users

Username: test-user
Full Name: Test User
UID: 10201
Is Admin: True
Is Owner: True
```

To get script-friendly JSON output:

```console
$ jetpack users --json

[
    {
        "fullName": "Test User",
        "isAdmin": true,
        "isOwner": true,
        "name": "test-user",
        "publicKeys": [
            "ssh-rsa public-key-goes-here\n"
        ],
        "uid": 10201
    }
]
```

### jetpack report_issue

`jetpack report_issue` archives log directories from the VM, optionally uploading them to Azure Storage and creating a signed URL for external access. The command uploads logs to the Azure Storage account referenced by the node's Locker. When you sign an archive in Azure Storage, the resulting SAS token has **read only** access for 30 days.

Usage:
```console
$ jetpack report_issue [LOG_PATH] [--upload/--no-upload] [--sign/--no-sign]
```

To archive, upload, and sign the default Jetpack logs (*$JETPACK_HOME/logs*):

```console
$ jetpack report_issue
Logs can be found at: https://testaccount.blob.core.windows.net/cyclecloud/issues/TestCluster-execute-1-77777964-8b74-420d-ad44-094edf7695f2.zip?sv=2017-11-09&rsct=binary&sig=jBJUlYo10lRq0eW94I%2B6syzYVmgo1qcTFUc35D/q0Tg%3D&se=2020-12-04T15%3A15%3A00Z&spr=https&rscd=disposition%3Dfile%3B%20attachment&sp=r&sr=b
Signed URL will expire on: 2020-12-04T15:15:00Z
```

To archive, upload, but not sign a nondefault log directory:

```console
$ jetpack report_issue /var/log/azure --no-sign
Logs can be found at: https://testaccount.blob.core.windows.net/cyclecloud/issues/TestCluster-execute-1-d67fe991-1dac-4644-9af7-50c835726f5e.zip
```

To archive logs on the local VM:

```console
$ jetpack report_issue --no-upload
Logs can be found at: /tmp/tmp4nscw705/TestCluster-execute-1-4249e973-3d87-4b14-94ed-6856a5267972.zip
```
