---
title: Monitoring your Azure Communications Gateway
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure Communications Gateway.
author: rcdun
ms.author: rdunstan
ms.service: communications-gateway
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: subject-monitoring
ms.date: 01/25/2023
---

# Monitoring Azure Communications Gateway

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation. This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Communications Gateway and how you can use the features of Azure Monitor to analyze and alert on this data.

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Communications Gateway. Azure Communications Gateway uses [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md). If you're unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md).


## What is Azure Monitor?

Azure Communications Gateway creates monitoring data using [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md), which is a full stack monitoring service in Azure. Azure Monitor provides a complete set of features to monitor your Azure resources. It can also monitor resources in other clouds and on-premises.

Start with the article [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md), which describes the following concepts:

- What is Azure Monitor?
- Costs associated with monitoring
- Monitoring data collected in Azure
- Configuring data collection
- Standard tools in Azure for analyzing and alerting on monitoring data

The following sections build on this article by describing the specific data gathered for Azure Communications Gateway. These sections also provide examples for configuring data collection and analyzing this data with Azure tools.

> [!TIP]
> To understand costs associated with Azure Monitor, see [Usage and estimated costs](../azure-monitor/usage-estimated-costs.md).


## Monitoring data 

Azure Communications Gateway collects metrics. See [Monitoring Azure Communications Gateway data reference](monitoring-azure-communications-gateway-data-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics created by Azure Communications Gateway. Azure Communications Gateway doesn't collect logs.

 For clarification on the different types of metrics available in Azure Monitor, see [Monitoring data from Azure resources](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md#monitoring-data-from-azure-resources).

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for Azure Communications Gateway, along with metrics from other Azure services, by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started.md) for details on using this tool.

For a list of the metrics collected, see [Monitoring Azure Communications Gateway data reference](monitoring-azure-communications-gateway-data-reference.md).

## Filtering and splitting

All Azure Communications Gateway metrics support the **Region** dimension, allowing you to filter any metric by the Service Locations defined in your Azure Communications Gateway resource. 

You can also split a metric by the **Region** dimension to visualize how different segments of the metric compare with each other. 

For more information of filtering and splitting, see [Advanced features of Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-charts.md).

## Alerts

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. 

Azure Communications Gateway doesn't currently support alerts.

## Next steps

- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md) for details on monitoring Azure resources.
