articles/communications-gateway/prepare-for-live-traffic-operator-connect.md, before:

---
title: Prepare for Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile live traffic with Azure Communications Gateway
description: After deploying Azure Communications Gateway, you and your onboarding team must carry out further integration work before you can launch your Teams Phone Mobile or Operator Connect service.
author: rcdun
ms.author: rdunstan
ms.service: communications-gateway
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 09/01/2023
---

# Prepare for live traffic with Operator Connect, Teams Phone Mobile and Azure Communications Gateway

Before you can launch your Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile service, you and your onboarding team must:

- Test your service.
- Prepare for launch.

In this article, you learn about the steps that you and your onboarding team must take.

> [!TIP]
> This article assumes that your Azure Communications Gateway onboarding team from Microsoft is also onboarding you to Operator Connect and/or Teams Phone Mobile. If you've chosen a different onboarding partner for Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile, you need to ask them to arrange changes to the Operator Connect and/or Teams Phone Mobile environments.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Some steps can require days or weeks to complete. For example, you'll need to wait at least seven days for automated testing of your deployment and schedule your launch date at least two weeks in advance. We recommend that you read through these steps in advance to work out a timeline.

## Prerequisites

- You must have [deployed Azure Communications Gateway](deploy.md) using the Microsoft Azure portal and [connected it to Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile](connect-operator-connect.md).
- You must have [chosen some test numbers](deploy.md#prerequisites).
- You must have a tenant you can use for testing (representing an enterprise customer), and some users in that tenant to whom you can assign the test numbers.
    - If you do not already have a suitable test tenant, you can use the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program), which provides E5 licenses.
    - The test users must be licensed for Teams Phone System and in Teams Only mode.
- You must have access to the following configuration portals.

    |Configuration portal  |Required permissions |
    |---------|---------|
    |[Operator Connect portal](https://operatorconnect.microsoft.com/) | `Admin` role or `PartnerSettings.Read` and `NumberManagement.Write` roles (configured on the Project Synergy enterprise application that you set up when [you connected to Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile](connect-operator-connect.md#add-the-project-synergy-application-to-your-azure-tenancy))|
    |[Teams Admin Center](https://admin.teams.microsoft.com/) for your test tenant |User management|


## Methods

In some parts of this article, the steps you must take depend on whether your deployment includes the Number Management Portal. This article provides instructions for both types of deployment. Choose the appropriate instructions.

## Ask your onboarding team to register your test enterprise tenant

Your onboarding team must register the test enterprise tenant that you chose in [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) with Microsoft Teams.

1. Find your company's "Operator ID" in your [operator configuration in the Operator Connect portal](https://operatorconnect.microsoft.com/operator/configuration).
1. Provide your onboarding contact with:
    - Your company's name.
    - Your company's Operator ID.
    - The ID of the tenant to use for testing.
1. Wait for your onboarding team to confirm that your test tenant has been registered.

## Assign numbers to test users in your tenant

1. Ask your onboarding team for the name of the Calling Profile that you must use for these test numbers. The name typically has the suffix `commsgw`. This Calling Profile has been created for you during the Azure Communications Gateway deployment process.
1. In your test tenant, request service from your company.
    1. Sign in to the [Teams Admin Center](https://admin.teams.microsoft.com/) for your test tenant.
    1. Select **Voice** > **Operators**.
    1. Select your company in the list of operators, fill in the form and select **Add as my operator**.
1. In your test tenant, create some test users (if you don't already have suitable users). License the users for Teams Phone System and place them in Teams Only mode.
1. Configure emergency locations in your test tenant.
1. Upload numbers in the Number Management Portal (if you chose to deploy it as part of Azure Communications Gateway) or the Operator Connect Operator Portal. Use the Calling Profile that you obtained from your onboarding team.

    # [Number Management Portal](#tab/number-management-portal)

    1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://azure.microsoft.com/).
    1. In the search bar at the top of the page, search for your Communications Gateway resource.
    1. Select your Communications Gateway resource.
    1. On the overview page, select **Consents** in the sidebar.
    1. Select your test tenant.
    1. From the menu, select **Update Relationship Status**. Set the status to **Agreement signed**.
    1. From the menu, select **Manage Numbers**.
    1. Select **Upload numbers**.
    1. Fill in the fields as required, and then select **Review + upload** and **Upload**.

    # [Operator Portal](#tab/no-number-management-portal)

    1. Open the Operator Portal.
    1. Select **Customer Consents**.
    1. Select your test tenant.
    1. Select **Update Relationship**. Set the status to **Agreement signed**.
    1. Select the link for your test tenant. The link opens **Number Management** > **Manage by Tenant**.
    1. Select **Upload Numbers**.
    1. Fill in the fields as required, and then select **Submit**.

    ---
1. In your test tenant, assign these numbers to your test users.
    1. Sign in to the Teams Admin Center for your test tenant.
    1. Select **Voice** > **Phone numbers**.
    1. Select a number, then select **Edit**.
    1. Assign the number to a user.
    1. Repeat for all your test users.

## Carry out integration testing and request changes

Network integration includes identifying SIP interoperability requirements and configuring devices to meet these requirements. For example, this process often includes interworking header formats and/or the signaling & media flows used for call hold and session refresh.

You must test typical call flows for your network. Your onboarding team will provide an example test plan that we recommend you follow. Your test plan should include call flow, failover, and connectivity testing.

- If you decide that you need changes to Azure Communications Gateway, ask your onboarding team. Microsoft will make the changes for you.
- If you need changes to the configuration of devices in your core network, you must make those changes.

## Run a connectivity test and upload proof

Before you can launch, Microsoft Teams requires proof that your network is properly connected to Microsoft's network.

1. Provide your onboarding team with proof that BFD is enabled. You should have enabled BFD when you [connected Azure Communications Gateway to your networks](deploy.md#connect-azure-communications-gateway-to-your-networks) as part of deploying. For example, if you have a Cisco router, you can provide configuration similar to the following.

    ```text
    interface TenGigabitEthernet2/0/0.150
       description private peering to Azure
       encapsulation dot1Q 15 second-dot1q 150
       ip vrf forwarding 15
       ip address 192.168.15.17 255.255.255.252
       bfd interval 150 min_rx 150 multiplier 3

    router bgp 65020
       address-family ipv4 vrf 15
          network 10.1.15.0 mask 255.255.255.128
          neighbor 192.168.15.18 remote-as 12076
          neighbor 192.168.15.18 fall-over bfd
          neighbor 192.168.15.18 activate
          neighbor 192.168.15.18 soft-reconfiguration inbound
       exit-address-family
    ```

1. Test failover of the connectivity to your network. Your onboarding team will work with you to plan this testing and gather the required evidence.
1. Work with your onboarding team to validate emergency call handling.

## Get your go-to-market resources approved

Before you can go live, you must get your customer-facing materials approved by Microsoft Teams. Provide the following to your onboarding team for review.

- Press releases and other marketing material
- Content for your landing page
- Logo for the Microsoft Teams Operator Directory (200 px by 200 px)
- Logo for the Microsoft Teams Admin Center (170 px by 90 px)

## Test raising a ticket

You must test that you can raise tickets in the Azure portal to report problems with Azure Communications Gateway. See [Get support or request changes for Azure Communications Gateway](request-changes.md).

## Learn about monitoring Azure Communications Gateway

Your staff can use a selection of key metrics to monitor Azure Communications Gateway. These metrics are available to anyone with the Reader role on the subscription for Azure Communications Gateway. See [Monitoring Azure Communications Gateway](monitor-azure-communications-gateway.md).

## Verify API integration

Your onboarding team must provide Microsoft with proof that you have integrated with the Microsoft Teams Operator Connect API for provisioning.

# [Number Management Portal](#tab/number-management-portal)

If you have the Number Management Portal, your onboarding team can obtain proof automatically. You don't need to do anything.

# [Without the Number Management Portal](#tab/no-number-management-portal)

If you don't have the Number Management Portal, you must provide your onboarding team with proof that you have made successful API calls for:

- Partner consent
- TN Upload to Account
- Unassign TN
- Release TN

---

## Arrange synthetic testing

Your onboarding team must arrange synthetic testing of your deployment. This synthetic testing is a series of automated tests lasting at least seven days. It verifies the most important metrics for quality of service and availability.

After launch, synthetic traffic will be sent through your deployment using your test numbers. This traffic is used to continuously check the health of your deployment.

## Schedule launch

Your launch date is the date that you'll appear to enterprises in the Teams Admin Center. Your onboarding team must arrange this date by making a request to Microsoft Teams.

Your service can be launched on specific dates each month. Your onboarding team must submit the request at least two weeks before your preferred launch date.

## Next steps

- Wait for your launch date.
- Learn about [getting support and requesting changes for Azure Communications Gateway](request-changes.md).
- Learn about [using the Number Management Portal to manage enterprises](manage-enterprise-operator-connect.md)
- Learn about [monitoring Azure Communications Gateway](monitor-azure-communications-gateway.md).

Commit message:

1003639 Explain service verification vs integration testing for Operator Connect

articles/communications-gateway/prepare-for-live-traffic-operator-connect.md, after:

---
title: Prepare for Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile live traffic with Azure Communications Gateway
description: After deploying Azure Communications Gateway, you and your onboarding team must carry out further integration work before you can launch your Teams Phone Mobile or Operator Connect service.
author: rcdun
ms.author: rdunstan
ms.service: communications-gateway
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 11/15/2023
---

# Prepare for live traffic with Operator Connect, Teams Phone Mobile and Azure Communications Gateway

Before you can launch your Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile service, you and your onboarding team must:

- Test your service.
- Prepare for launch.

In this article, you learn about the steps that you and your onboarding team must take.

> [!TIP]
> This article assumes that your Azure Communications Gateway onboarding team from Microsoft is also onboarding you to Operator Connect and/or Teams Phone Mobile. If you've chosen a different onboarding partner for Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile, you need to ask them to arrange changes to the Operator Connect and/or Teams Phone Mobile environments.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Some steps can require days or weeks to complete. For example, you'll need to wait at least seven days for automated testing of your deployment and schedule your launch date at least two weeks in advance. We recommend that you read through these steps in advance to work out a timeline.

## Prerequisites

- You must [deploy Azure Communications Gateway](deploy.md) using the Microsoft Azure portal and [connect it to Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile](connect-operator-connect.md).
- You must know the test numbers to use for integration testing and for service verification (continuous call testing). These numbers can't be the same. You chose them as part of [deploying Azure Communications Gateway](deploy.md#prerequisites) or [connecting it to Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile](connect-operator-connect.md#prerequisites).
    - Integration testing allows you to confirm that Azure Communications Gateway and Microsoft Phone System are interoperating correctly with your network.
    - Service verification is set up by the Operator Connect and Teams Phone Mobile programs and ensures that your deployment is able to handle calls from Microsoft Phone System throughout the lifetime of your deployment.
- You must have a tenant you can use for integration testing (representing an enterprise customer), and some users in that tenant to whom you can assign the numbers for integration testing.
    - If you don't already have a suitable test tenant, you can use the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program), which provides E5 licenses.
    - The test users must be licensed for Teams Phone System and in Teams Only mode.
- You must have access to the following configuration portals.

    |Configuration portal  |Required permissions |
    |---------|---------|
    |[Operator Connect portal](https://operatorconnect.microsoft.com/) | `Admin` role or `PartnerSettings.Read` and `NumberManagement.Write` roles (configured on the Project Synergy enterprise application that you set up when [you connected to Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile](connect-operator-connect.md#add-the-project-synergy-application-to-your-azure-tenancy))|
    |[Teams Admin Center](https://admin.teams.microsoft.com/) for your test tenant |User management|

## Methods

In some parts of this article, the steps you must take depend on whether your deployment includes the Number Management Portal. This article provides instructions for both types of deployment. Choose the appropriate instructions.

## Ask your onboarding team to register your test enterprise tenant

Your onboarding team must register the test enterprise tenant that you chose in [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) with Microsoft Teams.

1. Find your company's "Operator ID" in your [operator configuration in the Operator Connect portal](https://operatorconnect.microsoft.com/operator/configuration).
1. Provide your onboarding contact with:
    - Your company's name.
    - Your company's Operator ID.
    - The ID of the tenant to use for testing.
1. Wait for your onboarding team to confirm that your test tenant has been registered.

## Set up your test tenant

Integration testing requires setting up your test tenant for Operator Connect or Teams Phone Mobile and configuring users in this tenant with the numbers you chose for integration testing.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Do not assign the service verification numbers to test users. Your onboarding team arranges configuration of your service verification numbers.

1. Ask your onboarding team for the name of the Calling Profile that you must use for these test numbers. The name typically has the suffix `commsgw`. This Calling Profile has been created for you during the Azure Communications Gateway deployment process.
1. In your test tenant, request service from your company.
    1. Sign in to the [Teams Admin Center](https://admin.teams.microsoft.com/) for your test tenant.
    1. Select **Voice** > **Operators**.
    1. Select your company in the list of operators, fill in the form and select **Add as my operator**.
1. In your test tenant, create some test users (if you don't already have suitable users). License the users for Teams Phone System and place them in Teams Only mode.
1. Configure emergency locations in your test tenant.
1. Upload numbers in the Number Management Portal (if you chose to deploy it as part of Azure Communications Gateway) or the Operator Connect Operator Portal. Use the Calling Profile that you obtained from your onboarding team.

    # [Number Management Portal](#tab/number-management-portal)

    1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://azure.microsoft.com/).
    1. In the search bar at the top of the page, search for your Communications Gateway resource.
    1. Select your Communications Gateway resource.
    1. On the overview page, select **Consents** in the sidebar.
    1. Select your test tenant.
    1. From the menu, select **Update Relationship Status**. Set the status to **Agreement signed**.
    1. From the menu, select **Manage Numbers**.
    1. Select **Upload numbers**.
    1. Fill in the fields as required, and then select **Review + upload** and **Upload**.

    # [Operator Portal](#tab/no-number-management-portal)

    1. Open the Operator Portal.
    1. Select **Customer Consents**.
    1. Select your test tenant.
    1. Select **Update Relationship**. Set the status to **Agreement signed**.
    1. Select the link for your test tenant. The link opens **Number Management** > **Manage by Tenant**.
    1. Select **Upload Numbers**.
    1. Fill in the fields as required, and then select **Submit**.

    ---
1. In your test tenant, assign these numbers to your test users.
    1. Sign in to the Teams Admin Center for your test tenant.
    1. Select **Voice** > **Phone numbers**.
    1. Select a number, then select **Edit**.
    1. Assign the number to a user.
    1. Repeat for all your test users.

## Update your network's routing configuration

Your network must route calls for service verification testing and for integration testing to Azure Communications Gateway.

1. Route all calls from any service verification number to any other service verification number back to Microsoft Phone System through Azure Communications Gateway.
2. Route calls involving the test numbers for integration testing in the same way that you expect to route customer calls.

## Carry out integration testing and request changes

Network integration includes identifying SIP interoperability requirements and configuring devices to meet these requirements. For example, this process often includes interworking header formats and/or the signaling & media flows used for call hold and session refresh.

You must test typical call flows for your network. Your onboarding team will provide an example test plan that we recommend you follow. Your test plan should include call flow, failover, and connectivity testing.

- If you decide that you need changes to Azure Communications Gateway, ask your onboarding team. Microsoft will make the changes for you.
- If you need changes to the configuration of devices in your core network, you must make those changes.

## Run a connectivity test and upload proof

Before you can launch, Microsoft Teams requires proof that your network is properly connected to Microsoft's network.

1. Provide your onboarding team with proof that BFD is enabled. You should have enabled BFD when you [connected Azure Communications Gateway to your networks](deploy.md#connect-azure-communications-gateway-to-your-networks) as part of deploying. For example, if you have a Cisco router, you can provide configuration similar to the following.

    ```text
    interface TenGigabitEthernet2/0/0.150
       description private peering to Azure
       encapsulation dot1Q 15 second-dot1q 150
       ip vrf forwarding 15
       ip address 192.168.15.17 255.255.255.252
       bfd interval 150 min_rx 150 multiplier 3

    router bgp 65020
       address-family ipv4 vrf 15
          network 10.1.15.0 mask 255.255.255.128
          neighbor 192.168.15.18 remote-as 12076
          neighbor 192.168.15.18 fall-over bfd
          neighbor 192.168.15.18 activate
          neighbor 192.168.15.18 soft-reconfiguration inbound
       exit-address-family
    ```

1. Test failover of the connectivity to your network. Your onboarding team will work with you to plan this testing and gather the required evidence.
1. Work with your onboarding team to validate emergency call handling.

## Get your go-to-market resources approved

Before you can go live, you must get your customer-facing materials approved by Microsoft Teams. Provide the following to your onboarding team for review.

- Press releases and other marketing material
- Content for your landing page
- Logo for the Microsoft Teams Operator Directory (200 px by 200 px)
- Logo for the Microsoft Teams Admin Center (170 px by 90 px)

## Test raising a ticket

You must test that you can raise tickets in the Azure portal to report problems with Azure Communications Gateway. See [Get support or request changes for Azure Communications Gateway](request-changes.md).

## Learn about monitoring Azure Communications Gateway

Your staff can use a selection of key metrics to monitor Azure Communications Gateway. These metrics are available to anyone with the Reader role on the subscription for Azure Communications Gateway. See [Monitoring Azure Communications Gateway](monitor-azure-communications-gateway.md).

## Verify API integration

Your onboarding team must provide Microsoft with proof that you have integrated with the Microsoft Teams Operator Connect API for provisioning.

# [Number Management Portal](#tab/number-management-portal)

If you have the Number Management Portal, your onboarding team can obtain proof automatically. You don't need to do anything.

# [Without the Number Management Portal](#tab/no-number-management-portal)

If you don't have the Number Management Portal, you must provide your onboarding team with proof that you have made successful API calls for:

- Partner consent
- TN Upload to Account
- Unassign TN
- Release TN

---

## Arrange synthetic testing

Your onboarding team must arrange synthetic testing of your deployment. This synthetic testing is a series of automated tests lasting at least seven days. It verifies the most important metrics for quality of service and availability.

After launch, synthetic traffic will be sent through your deployment using your test numbers. This traffic is used to continuously check the health of your deployment.

## Schedule launch

Your launch date is the date that you'll appear to enterprises in the Teams Admin Center. Your onboarding team must arrange this date by making a request to Microsoft Teams.

Your service can be launched on specific dates each month. Your onboarding team must submit the request at least two weeks before your preferred launch date.

## Next steps

- Wait for your launch date.
- Learn about [getting support and requesting changes for Azure Communications Gateway](request-changes.md).
- Learn about [using the Number Management Portal to manage enterprises](manage-enterprise-operator-connect.md)
- Learn about [monitoring Azure Communications Gateway](monitor-azure-communications-gateway.md).
