---
title: Best practices for SQL on-demand (preview) 
description: Recommendations and best practices you should know when you work with SQL on-demand (preview). 
services: synapse-analytics
author: filippopovic
manager: craigg
ms.service: synapse-analytics
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.subservice: sql
ms.date: 05/01/2020
ms.author: fipopovi
ms.reviewer: jrasnick
---

# Best practices for SQL on-demand (preview) in Azure Synapse Analytics

In this article, you'll find a collection of best practices for using SQL on-demand (preview). SQL on-demand is a resource in Azure Synapse Analytics.

## General considerations

SQL on-demand allows you to query files in your Azure storage accounts. It doesn't have local storage or ingestion capabilities. So all files that the query targets are external to SQL on-demand. Everything related to reading files from storage might have an impact on query performance.

## Colocate your Azure storage account and SQL on-demand

To minimize latency, colocate your Azure storage account and your SQL on-demand endpoint. Storage accounts and endpoints provisioned during workspace creation are located in the same region.

For optimal performance, if you access other storage accounts with SQL on-demand, make sure they're in the same region. If they aren't in the same region, there will be increased latency for the data's network transfer between the remote region and the endpoint's region.

## Azure Storage throttling

Multiple applications and services might access your storage account. Storage throttling occurs when the combined IOPS or throughput generated by applications, services, and SQL on-demand workload exceed the limits of the storage account. As a result, you'll experience a significant negative effect on query performance.

When throttling is detected, SQL on-demand has built-in handling to resolve it. SQL on-demand will make requests to storage at a slower pace until throttling is resolved.

> [!TIP]
> For optimal query execution, don't stress the storage account with other workloads during query execution.

## Prepare files for querying

If possible, you can prepare files for better performance:

- Convert CSV and JSON to Parquet. Parquet is a columnar format. Because it's compressed, its file sizes are smaller than CSV or JSON files that contain the same data. SQL on-demand will need less time and fewer storage requests to read it.
- If a query targets a single large file, you'll benefit from splitting it into multiple smaller files.
- Try to keep your CSV file size below 10 GB.
- It's better to have equally sized files for a single OPENROWSET path or an external table LOCATION.
- Partition your data by storing partitions to different folders or file names. See [Use filename and filepath functions to target specific partitions](#use-filename-and-filepath-functions-to-target-specific-partitions).

## Push wildcards to lower levels in the path

You can use wildcards in your path to [query multiple files and folders](query-data-storage.md#query-multiple-files-or-folders). SQL on-demand lists files in your storage account, starting from the first * using storage API. It eliminates files that don't match the specified path. Reducing the initial list of files can improve performance if there are many files that match the specified path up to the first wildcard.

## Use appropriate data types

The data types you use in your query affect performance. You can get better performance if you follow these guidelines: 

- Use the smallest data size that will accommodate the largest possible value.
  - If the maximum character value length is 30 characters, use a character data type of length 30.
  - If all character column values are of fixed size, use **char** or **nchar**. Otherwise, use **varchar** or **nvarchar**.
  - If the maximum integer column value is 500, use **smallint** because it's the smallest data type that can accommodate this value. You can find integer data type ranges in [this article](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/t-sql/data-types/int-bigint-smallint-and-tinyint-transact-sql?view=sql-server-ver15).
- If possible, use **varchar** and **char** instead of **nvarchar** and **nchar**.
- Use integer-based data types if possible. SORT, JOIN, and GROUP BY operations complete faster on integers than on character data.
- If you're using schema inference, [check inferred data types](#check-inferred-data-types).

## Check inferred data types

[Schema inference](query-parquet-files.md#automatic-schema-inference) helps you quickly write queries and explore data without knowing file schemas. The cost of this convenience is that inferred data types are larger than the actual data types. This happens when there isn't enough information in the source files to make sure the appropriate data type is used. For example, Parquet files don't contain metadata about maximum character column length. So SQL on-demand infers it as varchar(8000).

You can use [sp_describe_first_results_set](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/sp-describe-first-result-set-transact-sql?view=sql-server-ver15) to check the resulting data types of your query.

The following example shows how you can optimize inferred data types. This procedure is used to show the inferred data types: 
```sql  
EXEC sp_describe_first_result_set N'
	SELECT
        vendor_id, pickup_datetime, passenger_count
	FROM 
		OPENROWSET(
        	BULK ''https://sqlondemandstorage.blob.core.windows.net/parquet/taxi/*/*/*'',
	        FORMAT=''PARQUET''
    	) AS nyc';
```

Here's the result set:

|is_hidden|column_ordinal|name|system_type_name|max_length|
|----------------|---------------------|----------|--------------------|-------------------||
|0|1|vendor_id|varchar(8000)|8000|
|0|2|pickup_datetime|datetime2(7)|8|
|0|3|passenger_count|int|4|

After you know the inferred data types for the query, you can specify appropriate data types:

```sql  
SELECT
    vendor_id, pickup_datetime, passenger_count
FROM 
	OPENROWSET(
		BULK 'https://sqlondemandstorage.blob.core.windows.net/parquet/taxi/*/*/*',
		FORMAT='PARQUET'
    ) 
	WITH (
		vendor_id varchar(4), -- we used length of 4 instead of the inferred 8000
		pickup_datetime datetime2,
		passenger_count int
	) AS nyc;
```

## Use filename and filepath functions to target specific partitions

Data is often organized in partitions. You can instruct SQL on-demand to query particular folders and files. Doing so will reduce the number of files and the amount of data the query needs to read and process. An added bonus is that you'll achieve better performance.

For more information, read about the [filename](query-data-storage.md#filename-function) and [filepath](query-data-storage.md#filepath-function) functions and see the examples for [querying specific files](query-specific-files.md).

> [!TIP]
> Always cast the results of the filepath and filename functions to appropriate data types. If you use character data types, be sure to use the appropriate length.

> [!NOTE]
> Functions used for partition elimination, filepath and filename, aren't currently supported for external tables, other than those created automatically for each table created in Apache Spark for Azure Synapse Analytics.

If your stored data isn't partitioned, consider partitioning it. That way you can use these functions to optimize queries that target those files. When you [query partitioned Apache Spark for Azure Synapse tables](develop-storage-files-spark-tables.md) from SQL on-demand, the query will automatically target only the necessary files.

## Use PARSER_VERSION 2.0 to query CSV files

You can use a performance-optimized parser when you query CSV files. For details, see [PARSER_VERSION](develop-openrowset.md).

## Use CETAS to enhance query performance and joins

[CETAS](develop-tables-cetas.md) is one of the most important features available in SQL on-demand. CETAS is a parallel operation that creates external table metadata and exports the SELECT query results to a set of files in your storage account.

You can use CETAS to store frequently used parts of queries, like joined reference tables, to a new set of files. You can then join to this single external table instead of repeating common joins in multiple queries.

As CETAS generates Parquet files, statistics will be automatically created when the first query targets this external table, resulting in improved performance.

## Azure AD Pass-through performance

SQL on-demand allows you to access files in storage by using Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) Pass-through or SAS credentials. You might experience slower performance with Azure AD Pass-through than you would with SAS.

If you need better performance, try using SAS credentials to access storage until Azure AD Pass-through performance is improved.

## Next steps

Review the [troubleshooting](../sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-troubleshoot.md?toc=/azure/synapse-analytics/toc.json&bc=/azure/synapse-analytics/breadcrumb/toc.json) article for solutions to common problems. If you're working with SQL pools rather than SQL on-demand, see [Best practices for SQL pools](best-practices-sql-pool.md) for specific guidance.
