---
# Mandatory fields.
title: Use the Azure Digital Twins APIs
titleSuffix: Azure Digital Twins
description: Understand details of the Azure Digital Twins API surface.
author: baanders
ms.author: baanders # Microsoft employees only
ms.date: 3/12/2020
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: digital-twins

# Optional fields. Don't forget to remove # if you need a field.
# ms.custom: can-be-multiple-comma-separated
# ms.reviewer: MSFT-alias-of-reviewer
# manager: MSFT-alias-of-manager-or-PM-counterpart
---

# Developer overview of Azure Digital Twins APIs

> [!TIP]
> * To learn how to create an Azure Digital Twins instance, please see [How to Set Up an Azure Digital Twins Instance](how-to-set-up-an-adt-instance.md)
> * To learn how to authenticate and connect to an instance, please see [How to Authenticate Against an Azure Digital Twins Instance](how-to-authenticate.md)

This article gives a brief overview of the API surface of Azure Digital Twins. 
The Azure Digital Twins API surface can be broadly divided into the following categories: 

* **DigitalTwinsModels** - The DigitalTwinsModels category provides APIs are used to manage the [twin types](concepts-models.md) in an Azure Digital Twins instance. Management activities include upload, validation, and retrieval of twin types authored in DTDL.
* **DigitalTwins** - The DigitalTwins category contains the APIs that let developers create, modify, and delete [digital twins](concepts-twins-graph.md) and their relationships in an Azure Digital Twins instance.
* **Query* - The Query category lets developers [find sets of digital twins in the twin graph](concepts-query-graph.md) across relationships
* **EventRoutes** - The EventRoutes category contains APIs to [route data](concepts-route-events.md) through the system, as well as to downstream services.

## Generate Azure Digital Twins SDKs (preview)

For private preview, Azure Digital Twins does not ship with an SDK. You can either use the REST APIs directly, or you can generate an SDK using Autorest. We will provide official SDKs for Azure Digital Twins at a later date. 

To generate an SDK, you will need:
* [AutoRest](https://github.com/Azure/autorest). Make sure you use version 2.0.4413.
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) as a pre-requisite to Autorest
* The OpenAPI (swagger) file that contains the [Azure Digital Twins API definitions](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/One/_git/Azure-IoT-DigitalTwins-Main?path=%2Fproducts%2Fswagger%2Fexternal-data-plane%2Fpreview%2F2020-03-01-preview%2Fdigitaltwins.json&version=GBmaster&_a=contents).

If you have node installed, you can make sure that you have the right version of Autorest installed using:
```bash
npm install -g autorest@2.0.4413
```

To run Autorest against the Azure Digital Twins swagger file:
* Copy the Azure Digital Twins swagger file in a working directory
* On a command prompt, switch to that working directory
* Run autorest:

```bash
autorest --input-file=adtApiSwagger.json --csharp --output-folder=Azure Digital TwinsApi --add-credentials --azure-arm --namespace=Azure Digital TwinsApi
```

As a result, you will see a new folder named Azure Digital TwinsApi in your working directory. The generated SDK files will have the namespace Azure Digital TwinsApi, which we will continue to use in the examples in the how-to section.

See [Adding the SDK to a Visual Studio Project] below for instructions how to build the SDK as a C# class library that can be included into other projects.

Autorest supports a wide range of language code generators. We have so far only tested the SDK generation with C# and Typescript.


## Add the SDK to a Visual Studio Project

You can include the C# files generated by Autorest directly into a .NET solution. However, as you will likely need the Azure Digital Twins SDK in several separate projects (your client apps, Azure Functions apps etc.), we recommend that you build a separate project (a .NET class library) from the generated files. You can then include this class library project into your other solutions as a project reference.

This section explains how to do build a separate project.

[ToDo]Add screen shots

* Create a new visual studio solution for a C# class library
* Use the name Azure Digital TwinsApi as the project name
* In Solutions Explorer, right-click the Azure Digital TwinsApi project of the generated solution and select Add>Existing Item...
* Find the folder where you generated the SDK and select the C# files at the root level
* Click OK
* Add a folder to the project (right-click on the project in solution explorer, and select Add>New Folder)
* Name the folder "Models"
* Right-click the Models folder in Solutions Explorer and select Add>Existing Item...
* Select the C# files in the Models folder of the generated SDK and press Ok

To build the SDK successfully, you need to add references to:
* Microsoft.Rest.ClientRuntime and 
* Microsoft.Rest.ClientRuntime.Azure

To do so, open Tools>NuGet Package Manager>Manage NuGet Packages for Solution...

* In the panel, make sure the Browse tab is selected
* Search for Microsoft.Rest
* Select the ClientRuntime and ClientRuntime.Azure packages and add them to your solution

You can now build the project, and include it as a project reference in any Azure Digital Twins application you wish to write

## General usage guidelines

Aim to abide by the following guidelines when using the generated C# SDK.

### Synchronous and asynchronous calls

All SDK functions come in synchronous and asynchronous versions

### Typed and untyped data

This is subject to change after private preview.

Generally, we aim to return strongly typed objects from REST api calls. However, because Azure Digital Twins lets users define their own types for twins (effectively, custom types), we have no way to pre-define static return data for many Azure Digital Twins calls. Instead, we return strongly typed wrapper types where applicable, but the twin-related data (custom types) itself is in form of JSON.Net objects, wherever the data type "object" appears in the API signatures. You can cast these objects appropriately.

### Azure SDK guideline compliance

Unlike the Autorest-generated SDK, the future official SDK will conform to the [Azure SDK Guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/general_introduction.html), and specifically for C# [the C# SDK guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/dotnet_introduction.html).

### Error handling

Whenever an error occurs in the SDK, the SDK will throw an exception, even for errors such as 404, and so on. It is therefore important to encapsulate all API calls with try/catch blocks.

```csharp
try
{
    await client.DigitalTwins.AddAsync(id, initData);
    Console.WriteLine($"Created a twin successfully: {id}");
}
catch (ErrorResponseException e)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"*** Error creating twin {id}: {e.Response.StatusCode}"); 
}
```

### Paging

Autorest generates two types of paging patterns for the SDK:
* One for all APIs except the query API
* One for the query API

The non-query paging pattern works as follows:
There are two versions of each call
* A version to make the initial call (e.g. DigitalTwins.ListEdges())
* A version to get subsequent pages, suffixed with "Next" (e.g. DigitalTwins.ListEdgesNext())

A more complete code snippet shows how to retrieve a list of outgoing relationships from Azure Digital Twins:
```csharp
try
{
    // List to hold the results in
    List<object> relList = new List<object>();
    // Enumerate the IPage object returned to get the results
    // ListAsync will throw if an error occurs
    IPage<object> relPage = await client.DigitalTwins.ListEdgesAsync(id);
    relList.AddRange(relPage);
    // If there are more pages, the NextPageLink in the page is set
    while (relPage.NextPageLink != null)
    {
        // Get more pages...
        relPage = await client.DigitalTwins.ListEdgesNextAsync(relPage.NextPageLink);
        relList.AddRange(relPage);
    }
    Console.WriteLine($"Found {relList.Count} relationships on {id}");
    // Do something with each object found
    // As relationships are custom types, they are JSON.Net types
    foreach (JObject r in relList)
    {
        string relId = r.Value<string>("$edgeId");
        string relName = r.Value<string>("$relationship");
        Console.WriteLine($"Found relationship {relId} from {id}");
    }
}
catch (ErrorResponseException e)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"*** Error retrieving relationships on {id}: {e.Response.StatusCode}");
}
```

The second pattern is only generated for the query API. It uses a continuationToken explicitly.
An example:

```csharp
string query = "SELECT * FROM digitaltwins";
string conToken = null; // continuation token from the query
int page = 0;
try
{
    // Repeat the query while there are pages
    do
    {
        QuerySpecification spec = new QuerySpecification(query, conToken);
        QueryResult qr = await client.Query.QueryTwinsAsync(spec);
        page++;
        Console.WriteLine($"== Query results page {page}:");
        if (qr.Items != null)
        {
            // Query returns are JObjects
            foreach(JObject o in qr.Items)
            {
                string twinId = o.Value<string>("$dtId");
                Console.WriteLine($"  Found {twinId}");
            }
        }
        Console.WriteLine($"== End query results page {page}");
        conToken = qr.ContinuationToken;
    } while (conToken != null);
} catch (ErrorResponseException e)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"*** Error in twin query: ${e.Response.StatusCode}");
}
```

## Next steps

See how to use the APIs to manage twin types, digital twins, and twin graphs:
* [Manage a twin type](how-to-manage-model.md)
* [Manage an individual digital twin](how-to-manage-twin.md)
* [Manage a twin graph](how-to-manage-graph.md)