articles/active-directory/develop/scenario-daemon-acquire-token.md, before:

---
title: Acquire tokens to call a web API (daemon app) - Microsoft identity platform | Azure
description: Learn how to build a daemon app that calls web APIs (acquiring tokens)
services: active-directory
author: jmprieur
manager: CelesteDG

ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 10/30/2019
ms.author: jmprieur
ms.custom: aaddev

#Customer intent: As an application developer, I want to know how to write a daemon app that can call web APIs by using the Microsoft identity platform for developers.

---

# Daemon app that calls web APIs - acquire a token

After you've constructed a confidential client application, you can acquire a token for the app by calling `AcquireTokenForClient`, passing the scope, and optionally forcing a refresh of the token.

## Scopes to request

The scope to request for a client credential flow is the name of the resource followed by `/.default`. This notation tells Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) to use the *application-level permissions* declared statically during application registration. Also, these API permissions must be granted by a tenant administrator.

# [.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
ResourceId = "someAppIDURI";
var scopes = new [] {  ResourceId+"/.default"};
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

In MSAL Python, the configuration file looks like this code snippet:

```Json
{
    "scope": ["https://graph.microsoft.com/.default"],
}
```

# [Java](#tab/java)

```Java
final static String GRAPH_DEFAULT_SCOPE = "https://graph.microsoft.com/.default";
```

---

### Azure AD (v1.0) resources

The scope used for client credentials should always be the resource ID followed by `/.default`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When MSAL requests an access token for a resource that accepts a version 1.0 access token, Azure AD parses the desired audience from the requested scope by taking everything before the last slash and using it as the resource identifier.
> So if, like Azure SQL Database (**https:\//database.windows.net**), the resource expects an audience that ends with a slash (for Azure SQL Database, `https://database.windows.net/`), you'll need to request a scope of `https://database.windows.net//.default`. (Note the double slash.) See also MSAL.NET issue [#747: Resource url's trailing slash is omitted, which caused sql auth failure](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/issues/747).

## AcquireTokenForClient API

To acquire a token for the app, you'll use `AcquireTokenForClient` or its equivalent, depending on the platform.

# [.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
using Microsoft.Identity.Client;

// With client credentials flows, the scope is always of the shape "resource/.default" because the
// application permissions need to be set statically (in the portal or by PowerShell), and then granted by
// a tenant administrator.
string[] scopes = new string[] { "https://graph.microsoft.com/.default" };

AuthenticationResult result = null;
try
{
 result = await app.AcquireTokenForClient(scopes)
                  .ExecuteAsync();
}
catch (MsalUiRequiredException ex)
{
    // The application doesn't have sufficient permissions.
    // - Did you declare enough app permissions during app creation?
    // - Did the tenant admin grant permissions to the application?
}
catch (MsalServiceException ex) when (ex.Message.Contains("AADSTS70011"))
{
    // Invalid scope. The scope has to be in the form "https://resourceurl/.default"
    // Mitigation: Change the scope to be as expected.
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```Python
# The pattern to acquire a token looks like this.
result = None

# First, the code looks up a token from the cache.
# Because we're looking for a token for the current app, not for a user,
# use None for the account parameter.
result = app.acquire_token_silent(config["scope"], account=None)

if not result:
    logging.info("No suitable token exists in cache. Let's get a new one from AAD.")
    result = app.acquire_token_for_client(scopes=config["scope"])

if "access_token" in result:
    # Call a protected API with the access token.
    print(result["token_type"])
else:
    print(result.get("error"))
    print(result.get("error_description"))
    print(result.get("correlation_id"))  # You might need this when reporting a bug.
```

# [Java](#tab/java)

This code is extracted from the [MSAL Java dev samples](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java/blob/dev/src/samples/confidential-client/).

```Java
private static IAuthenticationResult acquireToken() throws Exception {

     // Load token cache from file and initialize token cache aspect. The token cache will have
     // dummy data, so the acquireTokenSilently call will fail.
     TokenCacheAspect tokenCacheAspect = new TokenCacheAspect("sample_cache.json");

     IClientCredential credential = ClientCredentialFactory.createFromSecret(CLIENT_SECRET);
     ConfidentialClientApplication cca =
             ConfidentialClientApplication
                     .builder(CLIENT_ID, credential)
                     .authority(AUTHORITY)
                     .setTokenCacheAccessAspect(tokenCacheAspect)
                     .build();

     IAuthenticationResult result;
     try {
         SilentParameters silentParameters =
                 SilentParameters
                         .builder(SCOPE)
                         .build();

         // try to acquire token silently. This call will fail since the token cache does not
         // have a token for the application you are requesting an access token for
         result = cca.acquireTokenSilently(silentParameters).join();
     } catch (Exception ex) {
         if (ex.getCause() instanceof MsalException) {

             ClientCredentialParameters parameters =
                     ClientCredentialParameters
                             .builder(SCOPE)
                             .build();

             // Try to acquire a token. If successful, you should see
             // the token information printed out to console
             result = cca.acquireToken(parameters).join();
         } else {
             // Handle other exceptions accordingly
             throw ex;
         }
     }
     return result;
 }
```

---

### Protocol

If you don't yet have a library for your chosen language, you might want to use the protocol directly:

#### First case: Access the token request by using a shared secret

```HTTP
POST /{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/token HTTP/1.1           //Line breaks for clarity.
Host: login.microsoftonline.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

client_id=535fb089-9ff3-47b6-9bfb-4f1264799865
&scope=https%3A%2F%2Fgraph.microsoft.com%2F.default
&client_secret=qWgdYAmab0YSkuL1qKv5bPX
&grant_type=client_credentials
```

#### Second case: Access the token request by using a certificate

```HTTP
POST /{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/token HTTP/1.1               // Line breaks for clarity.
Host: login.microsoftonline.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

scope=https%3A%2F%2Fgraph.microsoft.com%2F.default
&client_id=97e0a5b7-d745-40b6-94fe-5f77d35c6e05
&client_assertion_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Aclient-assertion-type%3Ajwt-bearer
&client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsIng1dCI6Imd4OHRHeXN5amNScUtqRlBuZDdSRnd2d1pJMCJ9.eyJ{a lot of characters here}M8U3bSUKKJDEg
&grant_type=client_credentials
```

For more information, see the protocol documentation: [Microsoft identity platform and the OAuth 2.0 client credentials flow](v2-oauth2-client-creds-grant-flow.md).

## Application token cache

In MSAL.NET, `AcquireTokenForClient` uses the application token cache. (All the other AcquireToken*XX* methods use the user token cache.)
Don't call `AcquireTokenSilent` before you call `AcquireTokenForClient`, because `AcquireTokenSilent` uses the *user* token cache. `AcquireTokenForClient` checks the *application* token cache itself and updates it.

## Troubleshooting

### Did you use the resource/.default scope?

If you get an error message telling you that you used an invalid scope, you probably didn't use the `resource/.default` scope.

### Did you forget to provide admin consent? Daemon apps need it!

If you get an **Insufficient privileges to complete the operation** error when you call the API, the tenant administrator needs to grant permissions to the application. See step 6 of Register the client app above.
You'll typically see an error that looks like this error:

```json
Failed to call the web API: Forbidden
Content: {
  "error": {
    "code": "Authorization_RequestDenied",
    "message": "Insufficient privileges to complete the operation.",
    "innerError": {
      "request-id": "<guid>",
      "date": "<date>"
    }
  }
}
```

## Next steps

# [.NET](#tab/dotnet)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Daemon app - calling a web API](./scenario-daemon-call-api.md?tabs=dotnet)

# [Python](#tab/python)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Daemon app - calling a web API](./scenario-daemon-call-api.md?tabs=python)

# [Java](#tab/java)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Daemon app - calling a web API](./scenario-daemon-call-api.md?tabs=java)

---

Commit message:

[msid][gtd] Replaced blue buttons with links on Daemon & Mobile App Scenarios

articles/active-directory/develop/scenario-daemon-acquire-token.md, after:

---
title: Acquire tokens to call a web API (daemon app) - Microsoft identity platform | Azure
description: Learn how to build a daemon app that calls web APIs (acquiring tokens)
services: active-directory
author: jmprieur
manager: CelesteDG

ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 10/30/2019
ms.author: jmprieur
ms.custom: aaddev

#Customer intent: As an application developer, I want to know how to write a daemon app that can call web APIs by using the Microsoft identity platform for developers.

---

# Daemon app that calls web APIs - acquire a token

After you've constructed a confidential client application, you can acquire a token for the app by calling `AcquireTokenForClient`, passing the scope, and optionally forcing a refresh of the token.

## Scopes to request

The scope to request for a client credential flow is the name of the resource followed by `/.default`. This notation tells Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) to use the *application-level permissions* declared statically during application registration. Also, these API permissions must be granted by a tenant administrator.

# [.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
ResourceId = "someAppIDURI";
var scopes = new [] {  ResourceId+"/.default"};
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

In MSAL Python, the configuration file looks like this code snippet:

```Json
{
    "scope": ["https://graph.microsoft.com/.default"],
}
```

# [Java](#tab/java)

```Java
final static String GRAPH_DEFAULT_SCOPE = "https://graph.microsoft.com/.default";
```

---

### Azure AD (v1.0) resources

The scope used for client credentials should always be the resource ID followed by `/.default`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When MSAL requests an access token for a resource that accepts a version 1.0 access token, Azure AD parses the desired audience from the requested scope by taking everything before the last slash and using it as the resource identifier.
> So if, like Azure SQL Database (**https:\//database.windows.net**), the resource expects an audience that ends with a slash (for Azure SQL Database, `https://database.windows.net/`), you'll need to request a scope of `https://database.windows.net//.default`. (Note the double slash.) See also MSAL.NET issue [#747: Resource url's trailing slash is omitted, which caused sql auth failure](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/issues/747).

## AcquireTokenForClient API

To acquire a token for the app, you'll use `AcquireTokenForClient` or its equivalent, depending on the platform.

# [.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
using Microsoft.Identity.Client;

// With client credentials flows, the scope is always of the shape "resource/.default" because the
// application permissions need to be set statically (in the portal or by PowerShell), and then granted by
// a tenant administrator.
string[] scopes = new string[] { "https://graph.microsoft.com/.default" };

AuthenticationResult result = null;
try
{
 result = await app.AcquireTokenForClient(scopes)
                  .ExecuteAsync();
}
catch (MsalUiRequiredException ex)
{
    // The application doesn't have sufficient permissions.
    // - Did you declare enough app permissions during app creation?
    // - Did the tenant admin grant permissions to the application?
}
catch (MsalServiceException ex) when (ex.Message.Contains("AADSTS70011"))
{
    // Invalid scope. The scope has to be in the form "https://resourceurl/.default"
    // Mitigation: Change the scope to be as expected.
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```Python
# The pattern to acquire a token looks like this.
result = None

# First, the code looks up a token from the cache.
# Because we're looking for a token for the current app, not for a user,
# use None for the account parameter.
result = app.acquire_token_silent(config["scope"], account=None)

if not result:
    logging.info("No suitable token exists in cache. Let's get a new one from AAD.")
    result = app.acquire_token_for_client(scopes=config["scope"])

if "access_token" in result:
    # Call a protected API with the access token.
    print(result["token_type"])
else:
    print(result.get("error"))
    print(result.get("error_description"))
    print(result.get("correlation_id"))  # You might need this when reporting a bug.
```

# [Java](#tab/java)

This code is extracted from the [MSAL Java dev samples](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java/blob/dev/src/samples/confidential-client/).

```Java
private static IAuthenticationResult acquireToken() throws Exception {

     // Load token cache from file and initialize token cache aspect. The token cache will have
     // dummy data, so the acquireTokenSilently call will fail.
     TokenCacheAspect tokenCacheAspect = new TokenCacheAspect("sample_cache.json");

     IClientCredential credential = ClientCredentialFactory.createFromSecret(CLIENT_SECRET);
     ConfidentialClientApplication cca =
             ConfidentialClientApplication
                     .builder(CLIENT_ID, credential)
                     .authority(AUTHORITY)
                     .setTokenCacheAccessAspect(tokenCacheAspect)
                     .build();

     IAuthenticationResult result;
     try {
         SilentParameters silentParameters =
                 SilentParameters
                         .builder(SCOPE)
                         .build();

         // try to acquire token silently. This call will fail since the token cache does not
         // have a token for the application you are requesting an access token for
         result = cca.acquireTokenSilently(silentParameters).join();
     } catch (Exception ex) {
         if (ex.getCause() instanceof MsalException) {

             ClientCredentialParameters parameters =
                     ClientCredentialParameters
                             .builder(SCOPE)
                             .build();

             // Try to acquire a token. If successful, you should see
             // the token information printed out to console
             result = cca.acquireToken(parameters).join();
         } else {
             // Handle other exceptions accordingly
             throw ex;
         }
     }
     return result;
 }
```

---

### Protocol

If you don't yet have a library for your chosen language, you might want to use the protocol directly:

#### First case: Access the token request by using a shared secret

```HTTP
POST /{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/token HTTP/1.1           //Line breaks for clarity.
Host: login.microsoftonline.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

client_id=535fb089-9ff3-47b6-9bfb-4f1264799865
&scope=https%3A%2F%2Fgraph.microsoft.com%2F.default
&client_secret=qWgdYAmab0YSkuL1qKv5bPX
&grant_type=client_credentials
```

#### Second case: Access the token request by using a certificate

```HTTP
POST /{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/token HTTP/1.1               // Line breaks for clarity.
Host: login.microsoftonline.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

scope=https%3A%2F%2Fgraph.microsoft.com%2F.default
&client_id=97e0a5b7-d745-40b6-94fe-5f77d35c6e05
&client_assertion_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Aclient-assertion-type%3Ajwt-bearer
&client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsIng1dCI6Imd4OHRHeXN5amNScUtqRlBuZDdSRnd2d1pJMCJ9.eyJ{a lot of characters here}M8U3bSUKKJDEg
&grant_type=client_credentials
```

For more information, see the protocol documentation: [Microsoft identity platform and the OAuth 2.0 client credentials flow](v2-oauth2-client-creds-grant-flow.md).

## Application token cache

In MSAL.NET, `AcquireTokenForClient` uses the application token cache. (All the other AcquireToken*XX* methods use the user token cache.)
Don't call `AcquireTokenSilent` before you call `AcquireTokenForClient`, because `AcquireTokenSilent` uses the *user* token cache. `AcquireTokenForClient` checks the *application* token cache itself and updates it.

## Troubleshooting

### Did you use the resource/.default scope?

If you get an error message telling you that you used an invalid scope, you probably didn't use the `resource/.default` scope.

### Did you forget to provide admin consent? Daemon apps need it!

If you get an **Insufficient privileges to complete the operation** error when you call the API, the tenant administrator needs to grant permissions to the application. See step 6 of Register the client app above.
You'll typically see an error that looks like this error:

```json
Failed to call the web API: Forbidden
Content: {
  "error": {
    "code": "Authorization_RequestDenied",
    "message": "Insufficient privileges to complete the operation.",
    "innerError": {
      "request-id": "<guid>",
      "date": "<date>"
    }
  }
}
```

## Next steps

# [.NET](#tab/dotnet)

Move on to the next article in this scenario,
[Calling a web API](./scenario-daemon-call-api.md?tabs=dotnet).

# [Python](#tab/python)

Move on to the next article in this scenario,
[Calling a web API](./scenario-daemon-call-api.md?tabs=python).

# [Java](#tab/java)

Move on to the next article in this scenario,
[Calling a web API](./scenario-daemon-call-api.md?tabs=java).

---
