---
title: Delete self-service policies 
description: This article describes how to delete auto-generated self-service policies.
author: bjspeaks
ms.author: blessonj
ms.service: purview
ms.subservice: purview-data-policies
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/22/2022
---

# How to delete self-service data access policies

In a Microsoft Purview catalog, you can now [request access](how-to-request-access.md) to data assets. If policies are currently available for the data source type and the data source has [Data Use Management enabled](how-to-enable-data-use-management.md), a self-service policy is generated when a data access request is approved.

This article describes how to delete self-service data access policies that have been auto-generated by approved access requests.

## Prerequisites

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To delete self-service policies, make sure that the below prerequisites are completed.

Self-service policies must exist to be deleted. To enable and create self-service policies, follow these articles:

1. [Enable Data Use Management](how-to-enable-data-use-management.md) - this will allow Microsoft Purview to create policies for your sources.
1. [Create a self-service data access workflow](./how-to-workflow-self-service-data-access-hybrid.md) - this will enable [users to request access to data sources from within Microsoft Purview](how-to-request-access.md).
1. [Approve a self-service data access request](how-to-workflow-manage-requests-approvals.md#approvals) - after approving a request, if your workflow from the previous step includes the ability to create a self-service data policy, your policy will be created and will be viewable.

## Permission

Only users with **Policy Admin** privilege can delete self-service data access policies.

## Steps to delete self-service data access policies

1. Open the Azure portal and launch the [Microsoft Purview governance portal](https://web.purview.azure.com/resource/). The Microsoft Purview governance portal can be launched as shown below or by using the [url directly](https://web.purview.azure.com/resource/).

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-delete-self-service-data-access-policy/Purview-Studio-launch-pic-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing a Microsoft Purview account open in the Azure portal, with the Microsoft Purview governance portal button highlighted.":::

1. Select the policy management tab to launch the self-service access policies.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-delete-self-service-data-access-policy/Purview-Studio-self-service-tab-pic-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Microsoft Purview governance portal with the leftmost menu open, and the Data policy page option highlighted.":::

1. Open the self-service access policies tab.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-delete-self-service-data-access-policy/Purview-Studio-self-service-tab-pic-3.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Microsoft Purview governance portal open to the Data policy page with self-service access policies highlighted.":::

1. Here you'll see all your policies. Select the policies that need to be deleted. The policies can be sorted and filtered by any of the displayed columns to improve your search.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-delete-self-service-data-access-policy/Purview-Studio-selecting-policy-pic-4.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the self-service access policies page with one policy selected.":::

1. Select the delete button to delete all selected policies. 

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-delete-self-service-data-access-policy/Purview-Studio-press-delete-pic-5.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing a self-service access policy selected, with the Delete button at the top of the page highlighted.":::

1. Select **OK** on the confirmation dialog box to delete the policy. Refresh the screen to confirm that the policies have been deleted.

## Next steps

- [Self-service data access policy](./concept-self-service-data-access-policy.md)
