---
title: View self-service policies 
description: This article describes how to view autogenerated self-service access policies 
author: bjspeaks
ms.author: blessonj
ms.service: purview
ms.subservice: purview-data-policies
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/23/2023
---

# How to view self-service data access policies

In a Microsoft Purview catalog, you can now [request access](how-to-request-access.md) to data assets. If policies are currently available for the data source type and the data source has [Data Use Management enabled](how-to-enable-data-use-management.md), a self-service policy is generated when a data access request is approved.

This article describes how to view self-service data access policies that have been autogenerated by approved access requests.

## Prerequisites

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To view self-service policies, make sure that the below prerequisites are completed.

Self-service policies must exist for them to be viewed. To enable and create self-service policies, follow these articles:

1. [Enable Data Use Management](how-to-enable-data-use-management.md) - this will allow Microsoft Purview to create policies for your sources.
1. [Create a self-service data access workflow](./how-to-workflow-self-service-data-access-hybrid.md) - this will enable [users to request access to data sources from within Microsoft Purview](how-to-request-access.md).
1. [Approve a self-service data access request](how-to-workflow-manage-requests-approvals.md#approvals) - after approving a request, if your workflow from the previous step includes the ability to create a self-service data policy, your policy will be created and will be viewable.

## Permission

Only the creator of your Microsoft Purview account, or users with [**Policy Admin**](catalog-permissions.md#roles) permissions can view self-service data access policies.

If you need to add or request permissions, follow the [Microsoft Purview permissions documentation](catalog-permissions.md#add-users-to-roles).

## Steps to view self-service data access policies

1. Open the Azure portal and launch the [Microsoft Purview governance portal](https://web.purview.azure.com/resource/). The Microsoft Purview governance portal can be launched as shown below or by using the [url directly](https://web.purview.azure.com/resource/).

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-view-self-service-data-access-policy/Purview-Studio-launch-pic-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing a Microsoft Purview account open in the Azure portal, with the Microsoft Purview governance portal button highlighted.":::

1. Select the policy management tab to launch the self-service access policies.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-view-self-service-data-access-policy/Purview-Studio-self-service-tab-pic-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Microsoft Purview governance portal with the leftmost menu open, and the Data policy page option highlighted.":::

1. Open the self-service access policies tab.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-view-self-service-data-access-policy/Purview-Studio-self-service-tab-pic-3.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Microsoft Purview governance portal open to the Data policy page with self-service access policies highlighted.":::

1. Here you'll see all your policies. The policies can be sorted and filtered by any of the displayed columns to improve your search.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-view-self-service-data-access-policy/Purview-Studio-self-service-tab-pic-4.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the self-service access policies page, with an active filter highlighted next to the keyword filter textbox, and the date created column header selected to sort by that column.":::

## Next steps

- [Self-service data access policies](./concept-self-service-data-access-policy.md)
- [How to delete self-service access policies](how-to-delete-self-service-data-access-policy.md)
