---
title: Get a speaker profile ID for the personal voice - Speech service
titleSuffix: Azure AI services
description: Learn about how to Get a speaker profile ID for the personal voice. 
author: eric-urban
manager: nitinme
ms.service: azure-ai-speech
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 12/1/2023
ms.author: eur
---

# Get a speaker profile ID for the personal voice (preview) 

[!INCLUDE [Personal voice preview](./includes/previews/preview-personal-voice.md)]

To use personal voice in your application, you need to get a speaker profile ID. The speaker profile ID is used to generate synthesized audio with the text input provided.

You create a speaker profile ID based on the speaker's verbal consent statement and an audio prompt (a clean human voice sample between 50 - 90 seconds). The user's voice characteristics are encoded in the `speakerProfileId` property that's used for text to speech. For more information, see [use personal voice in your application](./personal-voice-how-to-use.md).

## Create personal voice

To create a personal voice and get the speaker profile ID, use the `PersonalVoices_Create` operation of the custom voice API. 

Before calling this API, please store audio files in Azure Blob. In the example below, audio files are https://contoso.blob.core.windows.net/voicecontainer/jessica/*.wav. 

Construct the request body according to the following instructions:

- Set the required `projectId` property. See [create a project](./personal-voice-create-project.md).
- Set the required `consentId` property. See [add user consent](./personal-voice-create-consent.md).
- Set the required `audios` property. Within the `audios` property, set the following properties:
  - Set the required `containerUrl` property to the URL of the Azure Blob Storage container that contains the audio files. Use [shared access signatures (SAS) SAS for a container](/azure/storage/blobs/sas-service-create-dotnet-container#create-a-service-sas-for-a-container) with both read and list permissions. 
  - Set the required `extensions` property to the extensions of the audio files. 
  - Optionally, set the `prefix` property to set a prefix for the blob name.

> [!NOTE]
> The personal voice ID and speaker profile ID aren't same. You can choose the personal voice ID, but the speaker profile ID is generated by the service. The personal voice ID is used to manage the personal voice. The speaker profile ID is used for text to speech.

Make an HTTP PUT request using the URI as shown in the following `PersonalVoices_Create` example. 
- Replace `YourResourceKey` with your Speech resource key.
- Replace `YourResourceRegion` with your Speech resource region. 
- Replace `JessicaPersonalVoiceId` with a personal voice ID of your choice. The case sensitive ID will be used in the personal voice's URI and can't be changed later. 

```azurecli-interactive
curl -v -X PUT -H "Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key: YourResourceKey" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "projectId": "ProjectId",
  "consentId": "JessicaConsentId",
  "audios": {
    "containerUrl": "https://contoso.blob.core.windows.net/voicecontainer?mySasToken",
    "prefix": "jessica/",
    "extensions": [
      ".wav"
    ]
  }
} '  "https://YourResourceRegion.api.cognitive.microsoft.com/customvoice/personalvoices/JessicaPersonalVoiceId?api-version=2023-12-01-preview"
```

You should receive a response body in the following format:

```json
{
  "id": "JessicaPersonalVoiceId",
  "speakerProfileId": "3059912f-a3dc-49e3-bdd0-02e449df1fe3",
  "projectId": "ProjectId",
  "consentId": "JessicaConsentId",
  "status": "NotStarted",
  "createdDateTime": "2023-04-01T05:30:00.000Z",
  "lastActionDateTime": "2023-04-02T10:15:30.000Z"
}
```

Use the `speakerProfileId` property to integrate personal voice in your text to speech application. For more information, see [use personal voice in your application](./personal-voice-how-to-use.md).

The response header contains the `Operation-Location` property. Use this URI to get details about the `PersonalVoices_Create` operation. Here's an example of the response header:

```HTTP 201
Operation-Location: https://eastus.api.cognitive.microsoft.com/customvoice/operations/1321a2c0-9be4-471d-83bb-bc3be4f96a6f?api-version=2023-12-01-preview
Operation-Id: 1321a2c0-9be4-471d-83bb-bc3be4f96a6f
```

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Use personal voice in your application.](./personal-voice-how-to-use.md).
