---
title: BCP033
description: Expected a value of type <data-type> but the provided value is of type <data-type>.
ms.topic: reference
ms.custom: devx-track-bicep
ms.date: 05/20/2026
---

# Bicep diagnostic code - BCP033

This diagnostic occurs when you assign a value of a mismatched data type.

## Description

Expected a value of type `<data-type>` but the provided value is of type `<data-type>`.

## Level

Warning / Error

## Solution

Use the expected data type. If the provided value is a token, enclose it in the [any() function](../bicep-functions-any.md) to mitigate the issue.

## Examples

The following example raises the diagnostic because the expected data type is a string. The actual provided value is an integer:

```bicep
var myValue = 5

output myString string = myValue
```

You can fix the diagnostic by providing a string value:

```bicep
var myValue = '5'

output myString string = myValue
```

In Azure Bicep, encountering Error *BCP033* while using `deployment().location` as a default value for a parameter restricted by an `@allowed` decorator is a common scenario. This error happens because of Bicep's strict compile-time type-safety mechanism. For example:

```bicep
targetScope = 'subscription'

@allowed([
  'southcentralus'
  'eastus2euap'
])
param location string = deployment().location
```

If you want to keep the convenience of defaulting to the metadata location of the current deployment, you can bypass the compile-time type check by using Bicep's [`any()`](../bicep-functions-any.md) function. This function tells the compiler to treat the expression as loosely typed:

```bicep
targetScope = 'subscription'

@allowed([
  'southcentralus'
  'eastus2euap'
])
// The any() function suppresses the BCP033 type-mismatch error
param location string = any(deployment().location)
```

If your deployment is rigidly bound to a single region, you can avoid using the dynamic `deployment().location` metadata altogether and explicitly assign a default value that exists inside your list.

## Next steps

For more information about Bicep diagnostics, see [Bicep core diagnostics](../bicep-core-diagnostics.md).
