---
title: BCP293
description: All members of a union type declaration must be literal values.
ms.topic: reference
ms.custom: devx-track-bicep
ms.date: 12/05/2025
---

# Bicep diagnostic code - BCP293

This diagnostic occurs when you declare a union type with members that aren't literal values.

## Description

All members of a union type declaration must be literal values.

## Level

Error

## Solution

Ensure that all members of a union type declaration are literal values. For more information, see [User-defined data types](../user-defined-data-types.md).

## Examples

The following example raises the diagnostic because the intent behind the following code is to restrict the input to specific environments ('dev', 'test', 'prod') while also trying to allow any other string value. Bicep's type system doesn't permit this mix in a union.

```bicep
type EnvironmentType = 'dev' | 'test' | 'prod' | string 
```

If the goal is to strictly enforce the three allowed values and fail compilation otherwise, remove the generic string type.

```bicep
type EnvironmentType = 'dev' | 'test' | 'prod'
```

If the goal is to allow any string value and the predefined list is just a suggestion, use the generic `string` type directly and remove the union altogether.

```bicep
type EnvironmentType = string
```

The following example is another example where mixing literals with objects containing generic primitives isn't allowed:

```bicep
type oneOfSeveralObjects = {foo: 'bar', bar: string} | {fizz: 'buzz'} | {snap: 'crackle'}
```

To fix the problem, all members must be of the same type category. Since the intent here is a union of complex types, the simplest fix is to ensure all properties that are intended to be constants are defined as string literals throughout the union.

```bicep
type oneOfSeveralObjects = {foo: 'bar', bar: 'baz'} | {fizz: 'buzz'} | {snap: 'crackle'}
```

## Next steps

For more information about Bicep diagnostics, see [Bicep core diagnostics](../bicep-core-diagnostics.md).
