articles/event-hubs/network-security.md, before:

---
title: Network security for Azure Event Hubs 
description: This article describes how to configure access from private endpoints
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 06/23/2020
---

# Network security for Azure Event Hubs 
This article describes how to use the following security features with Azure Event Hubs: 

- Service tags
- IP Firewall rules
- Network service endpoints
- Private endpoints


## Service tags
A service tag represents a group of IP address prefixes from a given Azure service. Microsoft manages the address prefixes encompassed by the service tag and automatically updates the service tag as addresses change, minimizing the complexity of frequent updates to network security rules. For more information about service tags, see [Service tags overview](../virtual-network/service-tags-overview.md).

You can use service tags to define network access controls on [network security groups](../virtual-network/network-security-groups-overview.md#security-rules) or [Azure Firewall](../firewall/service-tags.md). Use service tags in place of specific IP addresses when you create security rules. By specifying the service tag name (for example, **EventHub**) in the appropriate *source* or *destination* field of a rule, you can allow or deny the traffic for the corresponding service.

| Service tag | Purpose | Can use inbound or outbound? | Can be regional? | Can use with Azure Firewall? |
| --- | -------- |:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| **EventHub** | Azure Event Hubs. | Outbound | Yes | Yes |


## IP firewall 
By default, Event Hubs namespaces are accessible from internet as long as the request comes with valid authentication and authorization. With IP firewall, you can restrict it further to only a set of IPv4 addresses or IPv4 address ranges in [CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing) notation.

This feature is helpful in scenarios in which Azure Event Hubs should be only accessible from certain well-known sites. Firewall rules enable you to configure rules to accept traffic originating from specific IPv4 addresses. For example, if you use Event Hubs with [Azure Express Route](../expressroute/expressroute-faqs.md#supported-services), you can create a **firewall rule** to allow traffic from only your on-premises infrastructure IP addresses. 

The IP firewall rules are applied at the Event Hubs namespace level. Therefore, the rules apply to all connections from clients using any supported protocol. Any connection attempt from an IP address that does not match an allowed IP rule on the Event Hubs namespace is rejected as unauthorized. The response does not mention the IP rule. IP filter rules are applied in order, and the first rule that matches the IP address determines the accept or reject action.

For more information, see [How to configure IP firewall for an event hub](event-hubs-ip-filtering.md)

## Network service endpoints
The integration of Event Hubs with [Virtual Network (VNet) Service Endpoints](../virtual-network/virtual-network-service-endpoints-overview.md) enables secure access to messaging capabilities from workloads such as virtual machines that are bound to virtual networks, with the network traffic path being secured on both ends.

Once configured to bound to at least one virtual network subnet service endpoint, the respective Event Hubs namespace no longer accepts traffic from anywhere but authorized subnets in virtual networks. From the virtual network perspective, binding an Event Hubs namespace to a service endpoint configures an isolated networking tunnel from the virtual network subnet to the messaging service. 

The result is a private and isolated relationship between the workloads bound to the subnet and the respective Event Hubs namespace, in spite of the observable network address of the messaging service endpoint being in a public IP range. There is an exception to this behavior. Enabling a service endpoint, by default, enables the `denyall` rule in the [IP firewall](event-hubs-ip-filtering.md) associated with the virtual network. You can add specific IP addresses in the IP firewall to enable access to the Event Hub public endpoint. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Virtual networks are supported in **standard** and **dedicated** tiers of Event Hubs. It's not supported in the **basic** tier.

### Advanced security scenarios enabled by VNet integration 

Solutions that require tight and compartmentalized security, and where virtual network subnets provide the segmentation between the compartmentalized services, still need communication paths between services residing in those compartments.

Any immediate IP route between the compartments, including those carrying HTTPS over TCP/IP, carries the risk of exploitation of vulnerabilities from the network layer on up. Messaging services provide insulated communication paths, where messages are even written to disk as they transition between parties. Workloads in two distinct virtual networks that are both bound to the same Event Hubs instance can communicate efficiently and reliably via messages, while the respective network isolation boundary integrity is preserved.
 
That means your security sensitive cloud solutions not only gain access to Azure industry-leading reliable and scalable asynchronous messaging capabilities, but they can now use messaging to create communication paths between secure solution compartments that are inherently more secure than what is achievable with any peer-to-peer communication mode, including HTTPS and other TLS-secured socket protocols.

### Bind event hubs to virtual networks

**Virtual network rules** are the firewall security feature that controls whether your Azure Event Hubs namespace accepts connections from a particular virtual network subnet.

Binding an Event Hubs namespace to a virtual network is a two-step process. You first need to create a **virtual Network service endpoint** on a virtual network's subnet and enable it for **Microsoft.EventHub** as explained in the [service endpoint overview](../virtual-network/virtual-network-service-endpoints-overview.md) article. Once you have added the service endpoint, you bind the Event Hubs namespace to it with a **virtual network rule**.

The virtual network rule is an association of the Event Hubs namespace with a virtual network subnet. While the rule exists, all workloads bound to the subnet are granted access to the Event Hubs namespace. Event Hubs itself never establishes outbound connections, doesn't need to gain access, and is therefore never granted access to your subnet by enabling this rule.

For more information, see [How to configure virtual network service endpoints for an event hub](event-hubs-service-endpoints.md)

## Private endpoints

[Azure Private Link service](../private-link/private-link-overview.md) enables you to access Azure Services (for example, Azure Event Hubs, Azure Storage, and Azure Cosmos DB) and Azure hosted customer/partner services over a **private endpoint** in your virtual network.

A private endpoint is a network interface that connects you privately and securely to a service powered by Azure Private Link. The private endpoint uses a private IP address from your VNet, effectively bringing the service into your VNet. All traffic to the service can be routed through the private endpoint, so no gateways, NAT devices, ExpressRoute or VPN connections, or public IP addresses are needed. Traffic between your virtual network and the service traverses over the Microsoft backbone network, eliminating exposure from the public Internet. You can connect to an instance of an Azure resource, giving you the highest level of granularity in access control.

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is supported only with the **dedicated** tier. For more information about the dedicated tier, see [Overview of Event Hubs Dedicated](event-hubs-dedicated-overview.md). 

For more information, see [How to configure private endpoints for an event hub](private-link-service.md)


## Next steps
See the following articles:

- [How to configure IP firewall for an event hub](event-hubs-ip-filtering.md)
- [How to configure virtual network service endpoints for an event hub](event-hubs-service-endpoints.md)
- [How to configure private endpoints for an event hub](private-link-service.md)

Commit message:

private endpoints supported in "standard" tier too

articles/event-hubs/network-security.md, after:

---
title: Network security for Azure Event Hubs 
description: This article describes how to configure access from private endpoints
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 10/20/2020
---

# Network security for Azure Event Hubs 
This article describes how to use the following security features with Azure Event Hubs: 

- Service tags
- IP Firewall rules
- Network service endpoints
- Private endpoints


## Service tags
A service tag represents a group of IP address prefixes from a given Azure service. Microsoft manages the address prefixes encompassed by the service tag and automatically updates the service tag as addresses change, minimizing the complexity of frequent updates to network security rules. For more information about service tags, see [Service tags overview](../virtual-network/service-tags-overview.md).

You can use service tags to define network access controls on [network security groups](../virtual-network/network-security-groups-overview.md#security-rules) or [Azure Firewall](../firewall/service-tags.md). Use service tags in place of specific IP addresses when you create security rules. By specifying the service tag name (for example, **EventHub**) in the appropriate *source* or *destination* field of a rule, you can allow or deny the traffic for the corresponding service.

| Service tag | Purpose | Can use inbound or outbound? | Can be regional? | Can use with Azure Firewall? |
| --- | -------- |:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| **EventHub** | Azure Event Hubs. | Outbound | Yes | Yes |


## IP firewall 
By default, Event Hubs namespaces are accessible from internet as long as the request comes with valid authentication and authorization. With IP firewall, you can restrict it further to only a set of IPv4 addresses or IPv4 address ranges in [CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing) notation.

This feature is helpful in scenarios in which Azure Event Hubs should be only accessible from certain well-known sites. Firewall rules enable you to configure rules to accept traffic originating from specific IPv4 addresses. For example, if you use Event Hubs with [Azure Express Route](../expressroute/expressroute-faqs.md#supported-services), you can create a **firewall rule** to allow traffic from only your on-premises infrastructure IP addresses. 

The IP firewall rules are applied at the Event Hubs namespace level. Therefore, the rules apply to all connections from clients using any supported protocol. Any connection attempt from an IP address that does not match an allowed IP rule on the Event Hubs namespace is rejected as unauthorized. The response does not mention the IP rule. IP filter rules are applied in order, and the first rule that matches the IP address determines the accept or reject action.

For more information, see [How to configure IP firewall for an event hub](event-hubs-ip-filtering.md)

## Network service endpoints
The integration of Event Hubs with [Virtual Network (VNet) Service Endpoints](../virtual-network/virtual-network-service-endpoints-overview.md) enables secure access to messaging capabilities from workloads such as virtual machines that are bound to virtual networks, with the network traffic path being secured on both ends.

Once configured to bound to at least one virtual network subnet service endpoint, the respective Event Hubs namespace no longer accepts traffic from anywhere but authorized subnets in virtual networks. From the virtual network perspective, binding an Event Hubs namespace to a service endpoint configures an isolated networking tunnel from the virtual network subnet to the messaging service. 

The result is a private and isolated relationship between the workloads bound to the subnet and the respective Event Hubs namespace, in spite of the observable network address of the messaging service endpoint being in a public IP range. There is an exception to this behavior. Enabling a service endpoint, by default, enables the `denyall` rule in the [IP firewall](event-hubs-ip-filtering.md) associated with the virtual network. You can add specific IP addresses in the IP firewall to enable access to the Event Hub public endpoint. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Virtual networks are supported in **standard** and **dedicated** tiers of Event Hubs. It's not supported in the **basic** tier.

### Advanced security scenarios enabled by VNet integration 

Solutions that require tight and compartmentalized security, and where virtual network subnets provide the segmentation between the compartmentalized services, still need communication paths between services residing in those compartments.

Any immediate IP route between the compartments, including those carrying HTTPS over TCP/IP, carries the risk of exploitation of vulnerabilities from the network layer on up. Messaging services provide insulated communication paths, where messages are even written to disk as they transition between parties. Workloads in two distinct virtual networks that are both bound to the same Event Hubs instance can communicate efficiently and reliably via messages, while the respective network isolation boundary integrity is preserved.
 
That means your security sensitive cloud solutions not only gain access to Azure industry-leading reliable and scalable asynchronous messaging capabilities, but they can now use messaging to create communication paths between secure solution compartments that are inherently more secure than what is achievable with any peer-to-peer communication mode, including HTTPS and other TLS-secured socket protocols.

### Bind event hubs to virtual networks

**Virtual network rules** are the firewall security feature that controls whether your Azure Event Hubs namespace accepts connections from a particular virtual network subnet.

Binding an Event Hubs namespace to a virtual network is a two-step process. You first need to create a **virtual Network service endpoint** on a virtual network's subnet and enable it for **Microsoft.EventHub** as explained in the [service endpoint overview](../virtual-network/virtual-network-service-endpoints-overview.md) article. Once you have added the service endpoint, you bind the Event Hubs namespace to it with a **virtual network rule**.

The virtual network rule is an association of the Event Hubs namespace with a virtual network subnet. While the rule exists, all workloads bound to the subnet are granted access to the Event Hubs namespace. Event Hubs itself never establishes outbound connections, doesn't need to gain access, and is therefore never granted access to your subnet by enabling this rule.

For more information, see [How to configure virtual network service endpoints for an event hub](event-hubs-service-endpoints.md)

## Private endpoints

[Azure Private Link service](../private-link/private-link-overview.md) enables you to access Azure Services (for example, Azure Event Hubs, Azure Storage, and Azure Cosmos DB) and Azure hosted customer/partner services over a **private endpoint** in your virtual network.

A private endpoint is a network interface that connects you privately and securely to a service powered by Azure Private Link. The private endpoint uses a private IP address from your VNet, effectively bringing the service into your VNet. All traffic to the service can be routed through the private endpoint, so no gateways, NAT devices, ExpressRoute or VPN connections, or public IP addresses are needed. Traffic between your virtual network and the service traverses over the Microsoft backbone network, eliminating exposure from the public Internet. You can connect to an instance of an Azure resource, giving you the highest level of granularity in access control.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This feature is supported for both **standard** and **dedicated** tiers. It's not supported in the **basic** tier.

For more information, see [How to configure private endpoints for an event hub](private-link-service.md)


## Next steps
See the following articles:

- [How to configure IP firewall for an event hub](event-hubs-ip-filtering.md)
- [How to configure virtual network service endpoints for an event hub](event-hubs-service-endpoints.md)
- [How to configure private endpoints for an event hub](private-link-service.md)
