---
title: 'Use Azure Virtual WAN to create ExpressRoute connections to Azure and on-premises environments | Microsoft Docs'
description: In this tutorial, learn how to use Azure Virtual WAN to create ExpressRoute connections to Azure and on-premises environments.
services: virtual-wan
author: cherylmc

ms.service: virtual-wan
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 06/10/2019
ms.author: cherylmc
Customer intent: As someone with a networking background, I want to connect my corporate on-premises network(s) to my VNets using Virtual WAN and ExpressRoute.
---
# Tutorial: Create an ExpressRoute association using Azure Virtual WAN (Preview)

This tutorial shows you how to use Virtual WAN to connect to your resources in Azure over using an ExpressRoute circuit and association. For more information about Virtual WAN, see the [Virtual WAN Overview](virtual-wan-about.md)

In this tutorial, you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Create a vWAN
> * Create a hub
> * Find and associate a circuit to the hub
> * Associate the circuit to a hub(s)
> * Connect a VNet to a hub
> * View your virtual WAN
> * View resource health
> * Monitor a connection

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This public preview is provided without a service level agreement and should not be used for production workloads. Certain features may not be supported, may have constrained capabilities, or may not be available in all Azure locations. See the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/) for details.
>

## Before you begin

[!INCLUDE [updated-for-az](../../includes/updated-for-az.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Before you begin](../../includes/virtual-wan-tutorial-vwan-before-include.md)]

## <a name="register"></a>Register this feature

Before you can configure Virtual WAN, you must first enroll your subscription in the Preview. Otherwise, you will not be able to work with Virtual WAN in the portal. To enroll, send an email to **azurevirtualwan\@microsoft.com** with your subscription ID. You will receive an email back once your subscription has been enrolled.

**Preview Considerations:**

  * The ExpressRoute circuit must be enabled in a country/region that supports [ExpressRoute Global Reach](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/expressroute/expressroute-faqs#where-is-expressroute-global-reach-supported).
  * The ExpressRoute circuit must be a Premium circuit in order to connect to Virtual WAN hub. 

## <a name="vnet"></a>1. Create a virtual network

[!INCLUDE [Create a virtual network](../../includes/virtual-wan-tutorial-vnet-include.md)]

## <a name="openvwan"></a>2. Create a virtual WAN

From a browser, navigate to the [Azure portal (preview)](https://aka.ms/azurevirtualwanpreviewfeatures) and sign in with your Azure account.

[!INCLUDE [Create a virtual WAN](../../includes/virtual-wan-tutorial-vwan-include.md)]

### Getting started page

[!INCLUDE [Create a virtual WAN](../../includes/virtual-wan-tutorial-gettingstarted-include.md)]

## <a name="hub"></a>3. Create a hub

[!INCLUDE [Create a virtual WAN](../../includes/virtual-wan-tutorial-hub-include.md)]

## <a name="hub"></a>4. Find and associate a circuit to the hub

1. Select your vWAN and under **Virtual WAN Architecture**, select **ExpressRoute Circuits**.
1. If the ExpressRoute circuit is in the same subscription as your vWAN, click **Select ExpressRoute circuit** from your subscription(s). 
1. Using the pull-down, select your ExpressRoute you would like to associate to the hub.
1. If the ExpressRoute circuit is not in the same subscription or you have been provided [an authorization key and peer ID](../expressroute/expressroute-howto-linkvnet-portal-resource-manager.md), select **Find a circuit redeeming an authorization key**
1. Enter the following details:
1. **Authorization key** - Generated by the circuit owner as described above
1. **Peer circuit URI** - Circuit URI that is provided by the circuit owner and is the unique identifier for the circuit
1. **Routing weight** - [Routing Weight](../expressroute/expressroute-optimize-routing.md) allows you to prefer certain paths when multiple circuits from different peering locations are connected to the same hub
1. Click **Find circuit** and select the circuit, if found.
1. Select 1 or more hubs from the drop down and click **Save**.

## <a name="vnet"></a>5. Connect your VNet to a hub

In this step, you create the peering connection between your hub and a VNet. Repeat these steps for each VNet that you want to connect.

1. On the page for your virtual WAN, click **Virtual network connection**.
2. On the virtual network connection page, click **+Add connection**.
3. On the **Add connection** page, fill in the following fields:

    * **Connection name** - Name your connection.
    * **Hubs** - Select the hub you want to associate with this connection.
    * **Subscription** - Verify the subscription.
    * **Virtual network** - Select the virtual network you want to connect to this hub. The virtual network cannot have an already existing virtual network gateway.


## <a name="viewwan"></a>6. View your virtual WAN

1. Navigate to the virtual WAN.
2. On the Overview page, each point on the map represents a hub. Hover over any point to view the hub health summary.
3. In the Hubs and connections section, you can view hub status, site, region, VPN connection status, and bytes in and out.

## <a name="viewhealth"></a>7. View your resource health

1. Navigate to your WAN.
2. On your WAN page, in the **SUPPORT + Troubleshooting** section, click **Health** and view your resource.

## <a name="connectmon"></a>8. Monitor a connection

Create a connection to monitor communication between an Azure VM and a remote site. For information about how to set up a connection monitor, see [Monitor network communication](~/articles/network-watcher/connection-monitor.md). The source field is the VM IP in Azure, and the destination IP is the Site IP.

## <a name="cleanup"></a>9. Clean up resources

When you no longer need these resources, you can use [Remove-AzResourceGroup](/powershell/module/az.resources/remove-azresourcegroup) to remove the resource group and all of the resources it contains. Replace "myResourceGroup" with the name of your resource group and run the following PowerShell command:

```azurepowershell-interactive
Remove-AzResourceGroup -Name myResourceGroup -Force
```

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you learned how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Create a vWAN
> * Create a hub
> * Find and associate a circuit to the hub
> * Associate the circuit to a hub(s)
> * Connect a VNet to a hub
> * View your virtual WAN
> * View resource health
> * Monitor a connection

To learn more about Virtual WAN, see the [Virtual WAN Overview](virtual-wan-about.md) page.
