---
title: Video recording - Azure
description: In the context of a video management system for CCTV cameras, video recording refers to the process of capturing video from the cameras and recording it for viewing via mobile and browser apps. Video recording can be categorized as continuous video recording and event-based video recording. 
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 04/27/2020

---
# Video recording

In the context of a video management system for CCTV cameras, video recording refers to the process of capturing video from the cameras and recording it for viewing via mobile and browser apps. Video recording can be categorized as continuous video recording and event-based video recording. 

## Continuous video recording  

Continuous video recording (CVR) refers to the process of continuously recording all the video being captured from a video source. CVR ensures that all the video is available (dictated by the [recording policy](#recording-policy)) to analyze and/or audit at a later point in time.

## Event-based video recording  

Event-based video recording (EVR) refers to the process of recording video triggered by an event. The event in question, could originate due to processing of the video signal itself or could be from an independent source (for example, from a door sensor). Event-based video recording (EVR) can result in storage savings, but it requires additional components that generate the events and trigger the video recording (per a pre-defined policy). In other words, EVR requires making additional decisions regarding the events that should trigger video recording and the policy associated with video recording (also known as recording policy). An example of a policy could be something like: record the video for 2 minutes starting from 30 seconds prior to the event time. The events in question could originate due to video processing on the camera itself. As an example, several cameras support generating a motion detection signal event when motion is detected within a pre-configured zone of interest in the camera’s viewport. The events could also be generated by processing the video on another device that captures the video from the camera and analyzes it using simple image-processing techniques or sophisticated machine learning models. 

## Choosing recording modes  

The choice of whether to use CVR or EVR depends on the business goals. Live Video Analytics on IoT Edge provides platform capabilities for both CVR and EVR. You can learn more about it in the [CVR](continuous-video-recording-concept.md) and [EVR](event-based-video-recording-concept.md) scenario articles.

## Recording policy  

Recording policy refers to the policies that dictate the recording start/stop time (in case of EVR), recording duration, and recording deletion. Recording policies enable you to balance storage cost with business requirements. Recording policies differ between CVR and EVR. For CVR, recording policy defines how many days of video should be stored (for example, the last 7 days). For EVR, recording policy defines when recording should start and end, along with the duration of the video. You can learn more about it in the [CVR](continuous-video-recording-concept.md) and [EVR](event-based-video-recording-concept.md) scenario articles.

## Next steps

* [Detect motion, record video clips to Azure Media Services](detect-motion-record-video-clips-media-services-quickstart.md)
* [Detect motion, record video clips to edge devices](detect-motion-record-video-clips-edge-devices-quickstart.md)

