---
title: Assessment options in update management center (preview).
description: The article describes the assessment options available in Update management center (preview).
ms.service: update-management-center
ms.date: 04/16/2022
ms.topic: conceptual
author: snehasudhirG
ms.author: sudhirsneha
---

# Assessment options in update management center (preview)

**Applies to:** :heavy_check_mark: Windows VMs :heavy_check_mark: Linux VMs :heavy_check_mark: On-premises environment :heavy_check_mark: Azure Arc-enabled servers.

This article provides an overview of the assessment options available by update management center (preview). 

Update management center (preview) provides you the flexibility to assess the status of available updates and manage the process of installing required updates for your machines.

## Periodic assessment
 
 Periodic assessment is an update setting on a machine that allows you to enable automatic periodic checking of updates by update management center (preview). We recommend that you enable this property on your machines as it allows update management center (preview) to fetch latest updates for your machines every 24 hours and enables you to view the latest compliance status of your machines. You can enable this setting using update settings flow as detailed [here](manage-update-settings.md#configure-settings-on-single-vm) or enable it at scale by using [Policy](periodic-assessment-at-scale.md). 

:::image type="content" source="media/updates-maintenance/periodic-assessment-inline.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing periodic assessment option." lightbox="media/updates-maintenance/periodic-assessment-expanded.png":::

## Check for updates now/On-demand assessment

Update management center (preview) allows you to check for latest updates on your machines at any time, on-demand. You can view the latest update status and act accordingly. Go to **Updates** blade on any VM and select **Check for updates** or select multiple machines from update management center (preview) and check for updates for all machines at once. For more information, see [check and install on-demand updates](view-updates.md).


## Next steps

* To view update assessment and deployment logs generated by update management center (preview), see [query logs](query-logs.md).
* To troubleshoot issues, see the [Troubleshoot](troubleshoot.md) update management center (preview).