---
title: Share an Azure Managed Grafana dashboard or panel
description: Learn how to share a Grafana dashboard with internal and external stakeholders, such as customers or partners.
author: maud-lv
ms.author: malev
ms.service: managed-grafana
ms.topic: how-to 
ms.date: 03/01/2023
---

# Share a Grafana dashboard or panel

In this guide for Azure Managed Grafana, learn how to share a Grafana dashboard or a Grafana panel with internal and external stakeholders, whether they're registered in your Microsoft Entra tenant or not. You can choose to share a dashboard or panel with restricted access, or share it with public access to facilitate collaboration with partners or customers.

You can share Grafana visualizations by generating:

- a direct link
- a snapshot
- a library panel (for panels only)
- an export link (for dashboards only)

> [!NOTE]
> The Grafana UI may change periodically. This article shows the Grafana interface and user flow at a given point. Your experience may slightly differ from the examples below at the time of reading this document. If this is the case, refer to the [Grafana Labs documentation.](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/)

## Prerequisites

- An Azure account with an active subscription. [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free).
- An Azure Managed Grafana instance. If you don't have one yet, [create an Azure Managed Grafana instance](./quickstart-managed-grafana-portal.md).
- A Grafana dashboard. If you don't have one, [create a Grafana dashboard](./quickstart-managed-grafana-portal.md).

## Open sharing options

Access Grafana dashboard and panel sharing options with the following steps:

1. In the Azure portal, open your Azure Managed Grafana workspace and select the **Endpoint** URL.
1. In the Grafana portal, go to **Dashboards > Browse**, and open a dashboard of your choice.
1. Open the sharing options:
   - To share a whole dashboard, select the **Share dashboard or panel** icon at the top of the page.
   - To share a single dashboard panel, hover on top of a panel title, expand the panel menu and select **Share**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/share-dashboard/find-share-option.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Grafana instance. Create a new dashboard.":::

A new window opens, offering various sharing options.

> [!TIP] 
> If you update a dashboard or a panel, make sure to save your changes before sharing it so that it contains your latest changes.

### Share a link

The **Link** tab lets you create a direct link to a Grafana dashboard or panel.

Create a sharable link in one step, by selecting **Copy**, at the bottom of the tab. Optionally customize sharing with the options below:

- **Lock time range**: sets the time range of the shared panel or dashboard to the time range currently displayed in your shared panel or dashboard.
- **Theme**: keep the current theme or choose a dark or a light theme.
- **Shorten URL**: shortens the sharable link.

> [!NOTE] 
> Users must have a Grafana Viewer permission to view shared links.

### Share a snapshot

The **Snapshot** tab lets you share an interactive dashboard or panel publicly. Sensitive data like queries (metric, template, and annotation) and panel links are removed from the snapshot, leaving only the visible metric data and series names embedded in your dashboard.

1. Optionally update the snapshot name, select an expiry date and change the value of the timeout.
1. Choose to publish the Grafana snapshot:
   - to snapshots.raintank.io to make it accessible publicly to anyone with the link.
   - as a local snapshot, to restrict access to users who are registered in your Microsoft Entra tenant.
1. **Copy** the snapshot URL generated by Grafana. Select **Delete snapshot** if you no longer need it.

> [!NOTE] 
> - Snapshots published on snapshots.raintank.io can be viewed by anyone who has the link.
> - Users must have a Grafana Viewer permission to view snapshots shared locally.

### Create a library panel

The **Library panel** tab lets you create a library panel that can be reused in other Grafana dashboards. Do this in a single step by selecting The **Create library panel** at the bottom of the tab. Optionally update the panel library name and select another folder to save it in.

Once you've created a library panel, reuse it in other dashboards of the same Grafana instance by going to **Dashboards > New dashboard > Add panel from panel library**.

### Export a dashboard

The **Export** tab lets you export a dashboard in JSON format. Do this by selecting **Save to file** to download the JSON file, or select **View JSON > Copy to Clipboard**.

**Export for sharing externally** is disabled by default. Optionally enable this option to generate JSON code for external stakeholders. The exported dashboard can then be [imported to Grafana](how-to-create-dashboard.md#import-a-json-dashboard).

In this how-to guide, you learned how to create a Grafana dashboard. To learn about the latest updates to Azure Managed Grafana, go to:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [What's new](concept-whats-new.md)
