articles/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal.md, before:

---
title: Quickstart to search for and view your groups and assigned members using Azure Active Directory | Microsoft Docs
description: Quickstart with steps for how to search for and view all of your groups and their assigned members using Azure Active Directory.
services: active-directory
author: eross-msft
manager: mtillman

ms.service: active-directory
ms.workload: identity
ms.component: fundamentals
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 08/30/2018
ms.author: lizross
ms.custom: it-pro
ms.reviewer: krbain
---
# Quickstart: Search for a specific group and view its members using Azure Active Directory
You can search for a specific group and review the assigned members using Azure Active Directory.

In this quickstart, you’ll view all your existing groups, select the **MDM policy – West** group, and then view the assigned members.

If you don’t have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/) before you begin. 

## Prerequisites
Before you begin, you’ll need to:

1.	Create an Azure Active Directory tenant.

2.	Create the _MDM policy - West_ group and add member, _Alain Charon_. For more information, see [Create a basic group and add members](active-directory-groups-create-azure-portal.md).

## Sign in to the Azure portal
You must sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/) using a Global administrator account for the directory.

## View your existing groups
You can see all the groups for your organization in the **Groups - All groups** blade of the Azure portal.

- Select Azure **Active Directory**, and then select **Groups**.

    The **Groups - All groups** blade appears, showing all your active groups.

    ![Groups-All groups blade, showing all existing groups](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/groups-all-groups-blade-with-all-groups.png)

## Search for a specific group
Search the **Groups – All groups** blade to find the **MDM policy – West** group.

1. From the **Groups - All groups** blade, type _MDM_ into the **Search** box.

    The search results appear under the **Search** box, including the _MDM policy - West_ group.

    ![Groups – All groups blade with search box filled out](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/search-for-specific-group.png)

3. Select the group **MDM policy – West**.

4. View the group info on the **MDM policy - West Overview** blade, including the number of members of that group.

    ![MDM policy – West Overview blade with member info](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/group-overview-blade.png)

## View members of the MDM policy – West group
Now that you’ve found the group, you can view all the assigned members.

- Select **Members** from the **Manage** area, and then review the complete list of member names assigned to that specific group, including _Alain Charon_.

    ![List of members assigned to the MDM policy – West group](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/groups-all-members.png)

## Clean up resources
If you’re not going to continue to use this application, you can delete the group and its assigned members with the following steps:

1. On the **Groups - All groups** blade, search for the **MDM policy - West** group.

2.	Select the **MDM policy - West** group.

    The **MDM policy - West Overview** blade appears.

3. Select **Delete**.

    The group and its associated members are deleted.

    ![MDM policy – West Overview blade with Delete link highlighted](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/group-overview-blade-delete.png)

    >[!Important]
    >This doesn't delete the user Alain Charon, just his membership in the deleted group.

## Next steps
After you find your group and see the members, you can continue to:
- [Add or remove members](active-directory-groups-members-azure-portal.md)

- [Use the group to manage access to resources](active-directory-manage-groups.md)

- [Add group owners](active-directory-accessmanagement-managing-group-owners.md)

For more complex concepts and processes about groups, such as creating and using dynamic groups, delegating, and working with SaaS apps, see the [Azure Active Directory users, groups, roles, and licenses documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/users-groups-roles/).

Commit message:

changed from blade to page

articles/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal.md, after:

---
title: Quickstart to search for and view your groups and assigned members using Azure Active Directory | Microsoft Docs
description: Quickstart with steps for how to search for and view all of your groups and their assigned members using Azure Active Directory.
services: active-directory
author: eross-msft
manager: mtillman

ms.service: active-directory
ms.workload: identity
ms.component: fundamentals
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 08/30/2018
ms.author: lizross
ms.custom: it-pro
ms.reviewer: krbain
---
# Quickstart: Search for a specific group and view its members using Azure Active Directory
You can search for a specific group and review the assigned members using Azure Active Directory.

In this quickstart, you’ll view all your existing groups, select the **MDM policy – West** group, and then view the assigned members.

If you don’t have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/) before you begin. 

## Prerequisites
Before you begin, you’ll need to:

1.	Create an Azure Active Directory tenant.

2.	Create the _MDM policy - West_ group and add member, _Alain Charon_. For more information, see [Create a basic group and add members](active-directory-groups-create-azure-portal.md).

## Sign in to the Azure portal
You must sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/) using a Global administrator account for the directory.

## View your existing groups
You can see all the groups for your organization in the **Groups - All groups** page of the Azure portal.

- Select Azure **Active Directory**, and then select **Groups**.

    The **Groups - All groups** page appears, showing all your active groups.

    ![Groups-All groups page, showing all existing groups](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/groups-all-groups-blade-with-all-groups.png)

## Search for a specific group
Search the **Groups – All groups** page to find the **MDM policy – West** group.

1. From the **Groups - All groups** page, type _MDM_ into the **Search** box.

    The search results appear under the **Search** box, including the _MDM policy - West_ group.

    ![Groups – All groups page with search box filled out](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/search-for-specific-group.png)

3. Select the group **MDM policy – West**.

4. View the group info on the **MDM policy - West Overview** page, including the number of members of that group.

    ![MDM policy – West Overview page with member info](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/group-overview-blade.png)

## View members of the MDM policy – West group
Now that you’ve found the group, you can view all the assigned members.

- Select **Members** from the **Manage** area, and then review the complete list of member names assigned to that specific group, including _Alain Charon_.

    ![List of members assigned to the MDM policy – West group](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/groups-all-members.png)

## Clean up resources
If you’re not going to continue to use this application, you can delete the group and its assigned members with the following steps:

1. On the **Groups - All groups** page, search for the **MDM policy - West** group.

2.	Select the **MDM policy - West** group.

    The **MDM policy - West Overview** page appears.

3. Select **Delete**.

    The group and its associated members are deleted.

    ![MDM policy – West Overview page with Delete link highlighted](media/active-directory-groups-view-azure-portal/group-overview-blade-delete.png)

    >[!Important]
    >This doesn't delete the user Alain Charon, just his membership in the deleted group.

## Next steps
After you find your group and see the members, you can continue to:
- [Add or remove members](active-directory-groups-members-azure-portal.md)

- [Use the group to manage access to resources](active-directory-manage-groups.md)

- [Add group owners](active-directory-accessmanagement-managing-group-owners.md)

For more complex concepts and processes about groups, such as creating and using dynamic groups, delegating, and working with SaaS apps, see the [Azure Active Directory users, groups, roles, and licenses documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/users-groups-roles/).
