---
title: How to get started with SAP and Microsoft integration scenarios
description: Learn about the various integration points in the Microsoft ecosystem for SAP workloads.
author: MartinPankraz

ms.service: virtual-machines-sap
ms.topic: how-to
ms.workload: infrastructure-services
ms.date: 12/07/2022
ms.author: mapankra

---
# How to get started with SAP and Microsoft integration scenarios

According to SAP[^1] over 87% of total global commerce is generated by SAP customers and more SAP systems are running in the cloud each year. The SAP platform provides a foundation for innovation for many companies and can handle various workloads natively. Explore our integration section further to learn how you can combine the Microsoft ecosystem with your SAP workload to accelerate your business outcomes. Among the scenarios are extensions with Power Platform ("keep the ABAP core clean"), secured APIs with Azure API Management, automated business processes with Logic Apps, enriched experiences with SAP Business Technology Platform, uniform data blending dashboards with the Azure Data Platform and more.

For the latest news from the SAP+Microsoft world follow our SAP on Azure [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/SAPonAzure), the SAP on Microsoft [TechCommunity section](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/sap-on-microsoft/ct-p/SAPonMicrosoft) and the relevant tags on the [SAP Community](https://community.sap.com/search/?ct=blog&q=Azure).

To get a first impression about the limitless opportunities of extending SAP applications with Microsoft and Azure services, this Azure Friday episode is a perfect starting point:

[!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/72kbjv0GJAY]

## Overview

In the SAP integration documentation space, you can find the following areas:

- **Integration with SAP RISE managed workloads**: Learn how to [integrate your SAP RISE managed workloads](./sap-rise-integration#sap-btp-connectivity.md) with Azure services.
- **Microsoft Office**: Learn about Office Add-ins in Excel, doing SAP Principal Propagation with Office 365, SAP Analytics Cloud and Data Warehouse Cloud integration and more.
- **Microsoft Teams**: Discover collaboration scenarios boosting your daily productivity by interacting with your SAP applications directly from Microsoft Teams.
- **Microsoft Power Platform**: Learn about the available [out-of-the-box SAP applications](/power-automate/sap-integration/solutions?toc=/azure/virtual-machines/workloads/sap/toc.json&bc=/azure/virtual-machines/workloads/sap/breadcrumb/toc.json) enabling your business users to achieve more with less.
- **SAP Fiori**: Increase performance and security of your SAP Fiori applications by integrating them with Azure services.
- **Connect SAP services to Azure AD**: Ensure end-to-end SAP user authentication and authorization with Azure Active Directory. Single sign-on (SSO) and multi-factor authentication (MFA) are the foundation for a secure and seamless user experience.
- **Azure Integration Services**: Connect your SAP workloads with your end users, business partners, and their systems with world-class integration services. Learn about co-development efforts that enable SAP Event Mesh to exchange cloud events with Azure Event Grid, understand how you can achieve high-availability for services like SAP Cloud Integration, automate your SAP invoice processing with Logic Apps and Azure Cognitive Services and more.
- **App Development and DevOps**: Apply best-in-class developer tooling to your SAP app developments and DevOps processes.
- **Azure Data Services**: Learn how to integrate your SAP data with Data Services like Azure Synapse Analytics, Azure Data Lake Storage, Azure Data Factory, Power BI, Data Warehouse Cloud, Analytics Cloud and more.
- **Threat Monitoring with Microsoft Sentinel for SAP**: Learn how to best secure your SAP workload with Microsoft Sentinel, prevent incidents from happening and detect and respond to threats in real-time.
- **SAP Business Technology Platform (BTP)**: Discover integration scenarios like SAP Private Link to securely and efficiently connect your BTP apps to your Azure workloads.

## Recommended content

[Discover native SAP applications available on the Microsoft Teams marketplace](https://appsource.microsoft.com/marketplace/apps?product=teams&search=sap&page=1)
[Browse the out-of-the-box SAP applications available on Microsoft Power Platform](/power-automate/sap-integration/overview?source=recommendations#prebuilt-sap-integration-solution)
[Explore joint reference architectures on the SAP Discovery Center](https://discovery-center.cloud.sap/search/Azure)
[Secure your SAP NetWeaver email needs with Exchange Online](./exchange-online-integration-sap-email-outbound.md)
[Migrate your legacy SAP middleware to Azure](./expose-sap-process-orchestration-on-azure.md)

## Resources
[^1]: https://www.sap.com/documents/2017/04/4666ecdd-b67c-0010-82c7-eda71af511fa.html (SAP Corporate Fact Sheet, Oct 2022)
