articles/virtual-machine-scale-sets/shared-images-cli.md, before:

---
title: Use shared VM images to create a scale set in Azure | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to use the Azure CLI 2.0 to create shared VM images to use for deploying virtual machine scale sets in Azure.
services: virtual-machine-scale-sets
documentationcenter: ''
author: cynthn
manager: jeconnoc
editor: ''
tags: azure-resource-manager

ms.assetid: 
ms.service: virtual-machine-scale-sets
ms.workload: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 09/12/2018
ms.author: cynthn
ms.custom: 

---
# Create and use shared images for virtual machine scale sets with the Azure CLI 2.0

When you create a scale set, you specify an image to be used when the VM instances are deployed. To reduce the number of tasks after VM instances are deployed, you can use a custom VM image. This custom VM image includes any required application installs or configurations. Any VM instances created in the scale set use the custom VM image and are ready to serve your application traffic. In this article you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Create and customize a VM
> * Deprovision and generalize the VM
> * Create a custom VM image
> * Deploy a scale set that uses the custom VM image

If you don’t have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.


>[!NOTE]
> This article walks through the process of using a generalized managed image. It is not supported to create a scale set from a specialized VM image.


[!INCLUDE [virtual-machines-common-shared-images-cli](../../includes/virtual-machines-common-shared-images-cli.md)]

## Create a scale set from the custom VM image
Create a scale set with [az vmss create](/cli/azure/vmss#az-vmss-create). Instead of a platform image, such as *UbuntuLTS* or *CentOS*, specify the name of your custom VM image. The following example creates a scale set named *myScaleSet* that uses the custom image named *myImage* from the previous step:

```azurecli-interactive
az vmss create \
  --resource-group myResourceGroup \
  --name myScaleSet \
  --image myImage \
  --admin-username azureuser \
  --generate-ssh-keys
```

It takes a few minutes to create and configure all the scale set resources and VMs.


[!INCLUDE [virtual-machines-common-gallery-list-cli](../../includes/virtual-machines-common-gallery-list-cli.md)]


## Clean up resources
To remove your scale set and additional resources, delete the resource group and all its resources with [az group delete](/cli/azure/group#az_group_delete). The `--no-wait` parameter returns control to the prompt without waiting for the operation to complete. The `--yes` parameter confirms that you wish to delete the resources without an additional prompt to do so.

```azurecli-interactive
az group delete --name myResourceGroup --no-wait --yes
```


## Next steps

Commit message:

fixing link to Cloud Shell include

articles/virtual-machine-scale-sets/shared-images-cli.md, after:

---
title: Use shared VM images to create a scale set in Azure | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to use the Azure CLI 2.0 to create shared VM images to use for deploying virtual machine scale sets in Azure.
services: virtual-machine-scale-sets
documentationcenter: ''
author: cynthn
manager: jeconnoc
editor: ''
tags: azure-resource-manager

ms.assetid: 
ms.service: virtual-machine-scale-sets
ms.workload: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 09/12/2018
ms.author: cynthn
ms.custom: 

---
# Create and use shared images for virtual machine scale sets with the Azure CLI 2.0

When you create a scale set, you specify an image to be used when the VM instances are deployed. To reduce the number of tasks after VM instances are deployed, you can use a custom VM image. This custom VM image includes any required application installs or configurations. Any VM instances created in the scale set use the custom VM image and are ready to serve your application traffic. In this article you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Create and customize a VM
> * Deprovision and generalize the VM
> * Create a custom VM image
> * Deploy a scale set that uses the custom VM image

If you don’t have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.


>[!NOTE]
> This article walks through the process of using a generalized managed image. It is not supported to create a scale set from a specialized VM image.

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you choose to install and use the CLI locally, this article requires that you are running the Azure CLI version 2.0.46 or later. Run `az --version` to find the version. If you need to install or upgrade, see [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli).


[!INCLUDE [virtual-machines-common-shared-images-cli](../../includes/virtual-machines-common-shared-images-cli.md)]

## Create a scale set from the custom VM image
Create a scale set with [az vmss create](/cli/azure/vmss#az-vmss-create). Instead of a platform image, such as *UbuntuLTS* or *CentOS*, specify the name of your custom VM image. The following example creates a scale set named *myScaleSet* that uses the custom image named *myImage* from the previous step:

```azurecli-interactive
az vmss create \
  --resource-group myResourceGroup \
  --name myScaleSet \
  --image myImage \
  --admin-username azureuser \
  --generate-ssh-keys
```

It takes a few minutes to create and configure all the scale set resources and VMs.


[!INCLUDE [virtual-machines-common-gallery-list-cli](../../includes/virtual-machines-common-gallery-list-cli.md)]


## Clean up resources
To remove your scale set and additional resources, delete the resource group and all its resources with [az group delete](/cli/azure/group#az_group_delete). The `--no-wait` parameter returns control to the prompt without waiting for the operation to complete. The `--yes` parameter confirms that you wish to delete the resources without an additional prompt to do so.

```azurecli-interactive
az group delete --name myResourceGroup --no-wait --yes
```


## Next steps
