---
title: Overview of the Azure Diagnostics extension
description: Use Azure diagnostics for debugging, measuring performance, monitoring, traffic analysis in cloud services, virtual machines and service fabric
author: rboucher
ms.service: azure-monitor
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/13/2019
ms.author: robb
ms.subservice: diagnostic-extension
---
# What is Azure Diagnostics extension
The Azure Diagnostics extension is an agent within Azure that enables the collection of diagnostic data on a deployed application. You can use the diagnostics extension from a number of different sources. Currently supported are Azure Cloud Service (classic) Web and Worker Roles, Virtual Machines, Virtual Machine scale sets, and Service Fabric. Other Azure services have different diagnostics methods. See [Overview of monitoring in Azure](../../azure-monitor/overview.md).

## Linux Agent
A [Linux version of the extension](../../virtual-machines/extensions/diagnostics-linux.md) is available for Virtual Machines running Linux. The statistics collected and behavior vary from the Windows version.

## Data you can collect
The Azure Diagnostics extension can collect the following types of data:

| Data Source | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Performance counter metrics |Operating System and custom performance counters |
| Application logs |Trace messages written by your application |
| Windows Event logs |Information sent to the Windows event logging system |
| .NET EventSource logs |Code writing events using the .NET [EventSource](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/system.diagnostics.tracing.eventsource.aspx) class |
| IIS Logs |Information about IIS web sites |
| [Manifest based ETW logs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/etw/about-event-tracing) |Event Tracing for Windows events generated by any process.(1) |
| Crash dumps (logs) |Information about the state of the process if an application crashes |
| Custom error logs |Logs created by your application or service |
| Azure Diagnostic infrastructure logs |Information about Azure Diagnostics itself |

(1) To get a list of ETW providers, run `c:\Windows\System32\logman.exe query providers` in a console window on the machine you'd like to gather information from.

## Data storage
The extension stores its data in an [Azure Storage account](diagnostics-extension-to-storage.md) that you specify.

You can also send it to [Application Insights](../../azure-monitor/app/cloudservices.md). 

Another option is to stream it to [Event Hub](../../event-hubs/event-hubs-about.md), which then allows you to send it to non-Azure monitoring services.

You also have the choice of sending your data to Azure Monitor metrics time-series database. At this time, this sink is only applicable to Performance Counters. It enables you to send performance counters in as custom metrics. This feature is in Preview. The Azure Monitor sink supports:
* Retrieving all performance counters sent to Azure Monitor via the [Azure Monitor metrics APIs.](https://docs.microsoft.com/rest/api/monitor/)
* Alerting on all performance counters sent to Azure Monitor via the [metric alerts](../../azure-monitor/platform/alerts-overview.md) in Azure Monitor
* Treating wildcard operator in performance counters as the "Instance" dimension on your metric.  For example if you collected the "LogicalDisk(\*)/DiskWrites/sec" counter you would be able to filter and split on the "Instance" dimension to plot or alert on the Disk Writes/sec for each Logical Disk on the VM (for example, C:)

To learn more on how to configure this sink, refer to the [Azure diagnostics schema documentation.](diagnostics-extension-schema-1dot3.md)

## Costs
Each of the options above may incur costs. Be sure to research them to avoid unexpected bills.  Application Insights, Event hub, and Azure Storage have separate costs associated with ingestion and the time stored. In particular, Azure Storage will hold any data forever so you may want to purge older data after a certain time period to keep your costs down.    

## Versioning and configuration schema
See [Azure Diagnostics Version History and Schema](diagnostics-extension-schema.md).


## Next steps
Choose which service you're trying to collect diagnostics on and use the following articles to get started. Use the general Azure diagnostics links for reference for specific tasks.

## Cloud Services using Azure Diagnostics
* If using Visual Studio, see [Use Visual Studio to trace a Cloud Services application](/visualstudio/azure/vs-azure-tools-debug-cloud-services-virtual-machines) to get started. Otherwise, see
* [How to monitor Cloud services using Azure Diagnostics](../../cloud-services/cloud-services-how-to-monitor.md)
* [Set up Azure Diagnostics in a Cloud Services Application](../../cloud-services/cloud-services-dotnet-diagnostics.md)

For more advanced topics, see

* [Using Azure Diagnostics with Application Insights for Cloud Services](../../azure-monitor/app/cloudservices.md)
* [Trace the flow of a Cloud Services application with Azure Diagnostics](../../cloud-services/cloud-services-dotnet-diagnostics-trace-flow.md)
* [Use PowerShell to set up diagnostics on Cloud Services](../../virtual-machines/extensions/diagnostics-windows.md?toc=%2fazure%2fvirtual-machines%2fwindows%2ftoc.json)

## Virtual Machines
* If using Visual Studio, see [Use Visual Studio to trace Azure Virtual Machines](/visualstudio/azure/vs-azure-tools-debug-cloud-services-virtual-machines) to get started. Otherwise, see
* [Set up Azure Diagnostics on an Azure Virtual Machine](/azure/vs-azure-tools-diagnostics-for-cloud-services-and-virtual-machines)

For more advanced topics, see

* [Use PowerShell to set up diagnostics on Azure Virtual Machines](../../virtual-machines/extensions/diagnostics-windows.md?toc=%2fazure%2fvirtual-machines%2fwindows%2ftoc.json)
* [Create a Windows Virtual machine with monitoring and diagnostics using Azure Resource Manager Template](../../virtual-machines/extensions/diagnostics-template.md?toc=%2fazure%2fvirtual-machines%2fwindows%2ftoc.json)

## Service Fabric
Get started at [Monitor a Service Fabric application](../../service-fabric/service-fabric-diagnostics-how-to-monitor-and-diagnose-services-locally.md). Many other Service Fabric diagnostics articles are available in the navigation tree on the left once you get to this article.

## General articles
* Learn to [use Performance Counters in Azure Diagnostics](../../cloud-services/diagnostics-performance-counters.md).
* If you have trouble with diagnostics starting or finding your data in Azure storage tables, see [TroubleShooting Azure Diagnostics](diagnostics-extension-troubleshooting.md)

