---
title: Overview of Azure resource logs| Microsoft Docs
description: Understand the supported services and event schema for Azure resource logs.
ms.service:  azure-monitor
ms.subservice: logs
ms.topic: reference
author: rboucher
ms.author: robb
ms.date: 10/22/2019

---

# Azure Resource logs overview
Azure Resource logs are [platform logs](platform-logs-overview.md) emitted by Azure resources that describe their internal operation. All resource logs share a common top-level schema with the flexibility for each service to emit unique properties for their own events.

> [!NOTE]
> Resource logs were previously known as diagnostic logs.

## Collecting resource logs
Resource logs are automatically generated by supported Azure resources, but they aren't collected unless you configure them using a [diagnostic setting](diagnostic-settings.md). Create a diagnostic setting for each Azure resource to forward the logs to the following destinations:

| Destination | Scenario |
|:---|:---|:---|
| [Log Analytics workspace](resource-logs-collect-workspace.md) | Analyze the logs with other monitoring data and leverage Azure Monitor features such as log queries and log alerts. |
| [Azure storage](resource-logs-collect-storage.md) | Archive the logs for auditing or backup. |
| [Event hub](resource-logs-stream-event-hubs.md) | Stream the logs to third-party logging and telemetry systems.  |

## Compute resources
Resource logs differ from guest OS-level logs in Azure compute resources. Compute resources require an agent to collect logs and metrics from their guest OS, including such data as event logs, syslog, and performance counters. Use the [Diagnostic Extension](agents-overview.md#azure-diagnostic-extension) to route log data from Azure virtual machines and the [Log Analytics agent](agents-overview.md#log-analytics-agent) to collect logs and metrics from virtual machines in Azure, in other clouds, and on-premises into a Log Analytics workspace. See [Sources of monitoring data for Azure Monitor](data-sources.md) for details.

## Resource logs schema
For more information on the resource logs schema and categories, see [Resource Log Schema](diagnostic-logs-schema.md). 

## Next Steps

* [Learn more about other Azure platform logs](platform-logs-overview.md) that you can use to monitor Azure.
