---
title: Release Notes v7.7.0
description: Read product release notes for Azure CycleCloud v7.7.0. This release offers a revamped autoscale API, the ability to specify custom images in the UI, and more.
author: adriankjohnson
ms.date: 02/08/2019
ms.author: adjohnso
---

# CycleCloud version 7.7.0

This release provides a revamped autoscale API, the ability to specify custom images in the UI, Managed Identity support and a large number of new features and resolved issues.

## New Features:
 * CycleCloud includes a new flexible autoscaling API for custom scheduler requirements
 * Embedded universal Linux jetpack package will execute on any 64-bit Linux platform.
 * Added Ubuntu 18.04 support for select cluster types.
 * The cluster creation wizard accepts marketplace, gallery, or custom-image resource IDs in addition to the standard list.
 * The `ImageName` node attribute can select an image via marketplace, gallery, or custom-image resource IDs.
 * The installation wizard prompts for the initial user's SSH public key
 * CycleCloud can use the Azure Managed Identity of the VM it is installed on.
 * Nodes support a `ShutdownPolicy` attribute to determine whether they are terminated or deallocated on shutdown
 * The clusters page offers a new combined **Shut down** option that will terminate or deallocate nodes appropriately
 * The **Remove Nodes** dialog box supports a **Force** option for nodes that are stuck
 * The accounts page now shows available VM sizes for your subscription
 * Replaced embedded Ganglia packaging with EPEL sourced packages for Enterprise Linux system monitoring.
 * The RAID array chunk size can now be user defined
 * Nodes authenticate to the cluster's storage account via SAS tokens instead of access key
 * Added `HtmlTemplate` cluster parameter type which supports dynamic HTML

## Resolved Issues:
 * Switching credentials on a cluster would sometimes cause the image selector to fail
 * Changing a cluster to use a new account credential would cause node startup failures
 * The new HB and HC VM sizes did not appear in the "High Performance Compute" category
 * The machine-type selector on a cluster showed VM sizes that were unavailable in the subscription
 * Price monitor failures could cause VM type selector to not populate.
 * The **Add Nodes** dialog box allowed creating more nodes than the limit
 * Cluster-init project upload did not efficiently handle very large files
 * Nodes that were waiting on a return proxy could not be deallocated
 * Return-proxy tunnels were not disabled when the node was deallocated, leading to spurious warnings
 * The button on large tables to show all rows did not display properly
 * The provider account page would sometimes cause browser tabs to freeze
 * Let's Encrypt certificates were not extracted properly if using native connectors.
