---
title: Release Notes v7.9.3
description: Product release notes for Azure CycleCloud v7.9.3
author: adriankjohnson
ms.date: 03/12/2020
ms.author: adjohnso
---

# CycleCloud version 7.9.3

## New Features:
 * Added support for Spot VMs (replaces low priority VMs).
 * Added support for Univa GridEngine 8.6.7 to the GridEngine project.
 * LSF cluster type updated to version 3.2.1
 * PBSPro cluster type updated to version 1.3.4
 * Slurm cluster type updated to version 2.1.0

## Resolved Issues:
 * Form validation errors sometimes persisted even after being fixed
 * Subnets with no address prefixes caused an error collecting information from Azure
 * Jetpack installation would fail if the `cyclecloud` user already existed with an alternative home directory.
 * Ganglia metric reporting was not working correctly on Ubuntu 18.04
 * Disabled mountpoints were not properly ignored when managing users.
 * A mountpoint set to None or null would cause an error when managing users.
 * Domain joined Windows VMs would not correctly add users to the remote desktop group
 * Ubuntu images would sometimes not run `apt-get update` prior to installing software.
 * Nodes in a scaleset could not be terminated if the scaleset was deleted outside of CycleCloud
 * Errors updating a scaleset would make other scalesets appear to fail as well
 * Cluster admins could not run `jetpack` commands without running sudo.
 * VMs that started with a networking error were automatically reimaged unnecessarily
 * In some cases the config file `node.json` would have incorrect permissions.
 * It was possible to get into a state where granting admin permissions to a user would not properly take effect.
 * Certain unicode characters in cluster templates would cause imports to fail
 * The cause of `jetpack-initialize` errors would not be correctly reported in the UI.
 * Stability improvements for large long-running Slurm clusters
 * Quota calculations did not properly consider spot priority or regional vCPU limits.
 * Specifying a wildcard (eg `cyclecloud.security.limits.*.soft.nofile`) in a node's configuration did not work
 * In some cases, CycleCloud would not write a config file properly and would encounter an error on start
 * Mitigated CVE issues 2013-4002, 2014-0114, 2019-16942, 2019-16943, 2019-10086