---
title: Release Notes v8.0.0
description: Product release notes for Azure CycleCloud public preview v8.0.0
author: adriankjohnson
ms.date: 06/21/2024
ms.author: adjohnso
---

# CycleCloud version 8.0.0

## Compatibility Changes

 * The `cyclecloud` group is now used to control admin access on linux nodes instead of the `cyclecloud-admin` group.

## New Features

 * [Cloud-Init](~/articles/cyclecloud/how-to/cloud-init.md) is now available on images that support it.
 * [UltraSSD disks](~/articles/cyclecloud/cluster-references/volume-reference.md) are now supported.
 * [Ephemeral OS disks](~/articles/cyclecloud/cluster-references/volume-reference.md) are now supported
 * [Node-level metrics](~/articles/cyclecloud/concepts/monitoring.md) are now collected from Azure Monitor instead of Ganglia
 * The [node status display](~/articles/cyclecloud/how-to/report-issues.md) now shows the specific errors that may be encountered while starting nodes in a scaleset
 * [Jetpack](~/articles/cyclecloud/how-to/install-jetpack.md) is now available in RPM and DEB format for easier Linux installation.
 * The [CycleCloud CLI](~/articles/cyclecloud/how-to/install-cyclecloud-cli.md) now supports python 3.6+. (No longer supports python 2.)
 * Added support for Univa GridEngine 8.6.7 to the [GridEngine project](~/articles/cyclecloud/gridengine.md).
 * Messages from nodes in the cluster are now encrypted with HTTPS
 * Jetpack no longer uses the custom-data field to receive configuration data.
 * Improved CycleCloud boot time:
     * Removed maintenance converges to reduce jitter on tightly coupled jobs
     * Disabled Samba by default, use `cyclecloud.samba.enabled = true` to enable
     * Removed legacy autostart/autostop, in favor of autostart/autostop API
     * Smaller subset of SELinux packages are installed as needed
     * Removed NTP installation
     * Removed installation of fail2ban
     * Removed AWS/GCP specific code
     * Removed dependencies on EPEL
     * Removed cyclecloud MOTD
 * Streamlined CycleCloud application
     * Removed Grid Engine job monitoring and jobs page
     * Removed data page
     * Removed reports page
     * Removed query-based alerts page
     * Removed submitonce and filesync

 ## Resolved Issues

 * Clusters wouldn't start if the owner's name contained an invalid character
 * Windows `jetpack` command would have extra nonsensical output.
 * Jetpack would erroneously warn about ascii/utf-8 encoding issues.
 * Cluster create, delete and copy buttons would be displayed but non-functional for users without cluster management permissions
 * Initial site setup did not prompt for provider account configuration.
 * `jetpack initialize` failed on certain Centos 7 images.
 * A Slurm cluster name containing a space would cause the master install to fail.
 * When submitting PBSpro jobs that are dependent on other jobs, users can now refer to dependencies by job numbers instead of the full job ID
 * ED25519 SSH public keys would fail validation in the web UI
 * Links to individual scaleset VMs were broken due to a change in the Azure portal
 * In some error cases, VMs that failed to boot were automatically re-imaged even when that would not help
 * Scalesets with failed VMs caused more polling than necessary
 * Invalid HTTP requests would display a Tomcat stack trace in the response body
 * User settings cookies did not include the `HttpOnly` flag
 * Mitigated CVE issues 2013-4002, 2017-9050, 2019-5477, 2019-16892, 2019-17531, 2019-20330, 2020-5258, 2020-7598, 2020-8840

