---
title: Release Notes v8.7.0
description: Product release notes for Azure CycleCloud v8.7.0
author: bwatrous
ms.date: 01/07/2025
ms.author: bewatrou
---

# CycleCloud version 8.7.0

## New Features

* Storage lockers now support authentication with a managed identity instead of shared access keys. See “[Using Managed Identities](../how-to/managed-identities.md)” in the CycleCloud documentation for more details. 
* The [CycleCloud Slurm project](https://github.com/Azure/cyclecloud-slurm) now supports Slurm 24.05 
* CycleCloud now creates new Storage Accounts (Lockers) with the minimum TLS version set to 1.2. 
* If managed identity authentication is enabled, new storage accounts are now created with shared access keys disabled. 
* Jetpack and the CycleCloud CLI are now based on Python 3.12. 
* RHEL 9 is supported for CycleCloud Slurm clusters. 
* [Premium V2 disks](../cluster-references/volume-reference.md) are supported 
* Multiple [network interfaces](../cluster-references/network-interface-reference.md) for node arrays are supported 

## Resolved Issues

* Shared Access Keys used by Jetpack did not rotate properly and expired, causing AzCopy issues. 
* CycleCloud used a version of Apache Tomcat with open CVEs.   CycleCloud’s Tomcat has been upgraded to 9.0.98. 
* Jetpack downloaded the cluster-init manifest file more times than necessary on boot 
* For NDv5 H100, the wrong number of GPUs was reported from Azure and *gres.conf* was generated incorrectly. 
* Jetpack and the CycleCloud CLI used an older version of AzCopy with multiple open issues.  Jetpack and the CLI now use AzCopy version 10.27.1 
* The default firewalld rules in RHEL 9 images blocked ReturnProxy connections from cluster nodes when the ReturnProxy feature was enabled. 
* Jetpack incorrectly applied the AlmaLinux 8.7 GPG key patch to recent versions of AlmaLinux and RHEL leading to confusing warning messages and failures in some restricted environments. 
* CycleCloud generated incorrect *gres.conf* for AMD GPU VM SKUs. 
* The older Slurm step manager version contained a [Slurm security CVE](https://csirt.egi.eu/2024/10/28/vulnerability-in-slurm-stepmgr-subsystem-cve-2024-48936/) 
* The 'CycleCloud' settings section on the Settings page could not be changed. 
* The `cyclecloud project upload` failed when CycleCloud was configured to use Entra Id user authentication 
* Upgrading your CycleCloud installation from 8.6.0 to the latest version broke the ‘Edit Cluster’ page due to caching issues. 
* Links to the Azure Portal were not valid 
* When Disk deletion failed on first attempt, node deletion also failed 
* The *config/cycle_server.properties* file incorrectly declared it was auto-generated 
* In some DNS settings, Jetpack would resolve storage accounts with private endpoints to the public IP 
* Form validation errors incorrectly displayed to the right of form controls 
* Resolved [CVE-2017-1000487](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-1000487), [CVE-2024-48936](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-1000487)

## Known Issues 

* Older GridEngine clusters will break after upgrading to CycleCloud and Jetpack 8.7.0.   To work-around this issue, create a symlink from */bin/python3* to */bin/python* in [cloud-init](../how-to/cloud-init.md).  
* When replacing Shared Access Keys with a Managed Identity for storage account access, CycleCloud’s orchestrator identity must have Storage Account Blob Data Contributor and the selected Locker identity must have Storage Account Blob Data Reader to the Locker storage account.  Existing CycleCloud installations using Managed Identity for the orchestrator identity may not have this permission.  See “[Using Managed Identities](../how-to/managed-identities.md)” in the CycleCloud documentation for more details. 