---
title: Release Notes v8.7.3
description: Release notes for Azure CycleCloud v8.7.3, including new features, enhancements, and resolved issues.
author: bwatrous
ms.date: 06/19/2026
ms.topic: release-notes
ms.author: bewatrou
---

# CycleCloud version 8.7.3

## New Features 

There are no features in this release. This release focuses on improving stability and reliability by addressing various issues and bugs.

## Resolved Issues 

*   The Export Record dialog refreshed continuously when opened, disrupting copy/paste functionality.
*   Duplicate dialogs were generated for the Cluster Issues Support page.
*   Enabling SecureBoot, EnableVTPM, or MaxPrice could trigger 'attribute mismatch' errors.
*   The `cloud-init` editor displayed errors when handling Jinja templates.
*   CycleCloud CLI authentication failed when using workload identity.
*   Byte values in the UI were incorrectly displayed as KB, MB, GB instead of KiB, MiB, GiB, etc.
*   Clusters in a failed deletion state didn't present a retry button.
*   The `jetpack report_issue --no-upload` command ignored the '--no-upload' flag and attempted to upload logs.
*   Users were able to add nodes to clusters without having the necessary permissions.
*   Resolved [CVE-2025-48976](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-48976) and  [CVE-2025-46701](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-46701)
*   `Azslurm` failed due to OS argument limits in large clusters.
*   `ReturnProxy` setup failed on newer versions of RHEL 9.
*   Using the '$' character in passwords defined in the cluster template led to unexpected behavior.
*   RHEL 9 exec nodes with internal NFS failed to converge due to 'mount.nfs: No route to host' error.

## Breaking Changes

*  Access to packages.microsoft.com is now required for Slurm package installation.

