---
title: Release Notes v8.7.2
description: Product release notes for Azure CycleCloud v8.7.2
author: bwatrous
ms.date: 08/01/2025
ms.author: bewatrou
---

# CycleCloud version 8.7.2

This release introduces highly requested new features, addresses several key issues, and improves overall performance.

## New features 

This release has the following new features added:

*   The Cyclecloud Slurm cluster type now supports Slurm versions 24.05.6 and 24.11.3. 
*   The Jetpack converge process now includes support for strace. 
*   The azslurm CLI now provides a topology configuration generator for topology-aware Slurm scheduling. 
*   The .NET runtime is no longer required by CycleServer and is no longer bundled.    

## Resolved issues 

*   The username wasn't correctly set from v1 Entra ID tokens. 
*   Nodes were sometimes shown as converged prematurely in the UI.  
*   Editing credentials failed when using a Service Principal with a secret. 
*   Entra ID validation didn't time out properly during network errors.
*   Sending email through CycleServer required STARTTLS.
*   Cyclecloud CLI failed Entra authentication when using a Service Principal with Certificate.
*   Jetpack occasionally failed to include the cluster-init script that caused an error in the Node details and Issues UI stack trace. 
*   Updating a user's password with the `execute` command sometimes failed on the first attempt.
*   CycleCloud incorrectly threw a "NullPointerException" when an invalid password was provided to the REST API with Entra ID authentication enabled. 
*   Removed a potentially confusing Jetpack warning: `"PIDFile= references a path below legacy directory /var/run/"`. 
*   The Ubuntu `needrestart` utility would unnecessarily restart CycleCloud when other packages were updated or installed.
*   Some GPU SKUs didn't automatically enable "Accelerated Networking", even though the feature is now supported. 
*   Removed references to the unused 'cganglia' cookbook from all cluster types. 
*   The Locker identity drop-down didn't handle multiple subscriptions correctly. 
*   The Locker identity field was case-sensitive, which led to failures when a cluster used the same identity as a UserAssignedIdentity, due to inconsistent case preservation.  
*   Entra users with no permissions were unable to log out. 
*   Data table initial column sizes were sometimes too small for their content. 
*   Resolved [NVD - CVE-2025-24813](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-24813) 
    
## Known issues 

*   The (retired) BeeGFS cluster type requires custom images, as the Azure HPC and OpenLogic CentOS 7 images have reached end-of-life and are no longer available in the Azure Marketplace. 
*   HPC Pack Broker nodes fail to converge breaking SOA workloads. This issue will be resolved in the next release. 
*   The Altair GridEngine demo release is no longer supported. Altair GridEngine users must [upload their licensed GridEngine installer binary](../gridengine.md#copy-the-binaries-into-the-cloud-locker) to their CycleCloud Storage Locker.
