---
title: Release Notes v8.8.0
description: Product release notes for Azure CycleCloud v8.8.0
author: bwatrous
ms.date: 12/08/2025
ms.author: bewatrou
---

# Azure CycleCloud version 8.8.0

This release introduces highly requested new features, addresses several key issues, and improves overall performance.

## New features 
 
- Azure CycleCloud offers greatly improved node health monitoring and reporting via the new HealthAgent (see the [Azure CycleCloud HealthAgent Project](https://github.com/Azure/cyclecloud-healthagent)).
- You can disable the Azure CycleCloud HealthAgent by setting the node configuration property `cyclecloud.healthagent.disable=true`.
- Azure CycleCloud now offers node, GPU, and Slurm scheduler metrics for monitoring and alerting. Monitoring is provided via Azure Monitor Workspace and Managed Grafana. See the [Azure CycleCloud Monitoring Project](https://github.com/Azure/cyclecloud-monitoring) for details.
 
- **Azure CycleCloud Slurm cluster changes:**
    - Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters support Slurm version 25.05.2.
    - Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters support Ubuntu 22/24, Alma 8/9, and RedHat 8/9 images.
    - Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters support ARM64 images and machine types.
    - Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters offer built-in, continuous health-checking, reporting, and recovery for cluster nodes by automatically configuring the Slurm HealthCheckProgram, Prolog, and Epilog scripts to use the Azure CycleCloud HealthAgent.
    - Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters offer built-in metrics collection and monitoring in Azure Monitor Workspace.
    - The Azure CycleCloud Slurm cluster creation UI provides a new `Monitoring` section to support enabling and configuring the new metrics collection and monitoring capabilities (disabled by default).
    - Azure CycleCloud Slurm configures and starts the slurmrestd service automatically to support monitoring. 
    - Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters offer built-in, automated topology plugin configuration for both the tree and block topology plugins via the `azslurm topology` CLI. Automatic topology configuration is supported for clusters with Virtual Machine Scale Sets topology, SHARP, or the NVLink Domain for Slurm topology-aware scheduling.
    - Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters include a new `azslurmd` system service that synchronizes shared Slurm and Azure CycleCloud state. For example, `azslurmd` synchronizes Azure CycleCloud's node keep-alive setting with Slurm’s native keep-alive feature.
    - Cyclecloud Slurm clusters now include prolog and epilog scripts to automatically configure the ["Nvidia IMEX"](https://docs.nvidia.com/multi-node-nvlink-systems/imex-guide/overview.html) service on a per-job basis for Nvidia GPU clusters.
    - Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters using the `cyclecloud-slurm` project, version 4.x and later, no longer require Chef for node configuration.
 
- **Jetpack CLI changes**
    - The Jetpack CLI includes a new `jetpack props` command to support reading and writing node data (properties) from cluster nodes for use in cluster-init scripts. Properties are stored back to Azure CycleCloud as the `NodeProperties` type in the Azure CycleCloud datastore.
    - The Jetpack CLI includes a new `jetpack condition` command used to report node health conditions to Azure CycleCloud. 
 
- **Azure CycleCloud UI Changes**
    - The cluster-level `Issues` button now opens as a full page and aggregates allocation and health issues for easier viewing.
    - The cluster-level `Activity Log` tab in the Cluster UI was repositioned alongside the `Event Log` pane.
    - The node-level `Show Details` dialog `Overview` tab was redesigned and updated with direct links to the Azure portal and copy buttons for all fields.
    - The node-level `Show Details` dialog includes a new action bar that provides node-specific operations including `Restart` and `Reimage` for node health remediation. 
    - The node-level `Show Details` dialog now shows just the first node health condition and provides a link to a new `Issues` tab to display all current node conditions.
 
- **NVMe device support**
    - Azure CycleCloud automatically mounts and formats NVMe storage devices on Linux nodes on machine types with NVMe ephemeral disks.
    - Linux nodes mount NVMe ephemeral disks at `/nvme`.
    - Machine types with NVMe boot disks, such as the v6, HBv5, and HBv6 machine types, are now supported.
 
- **ARM64 support**
    - Azure CycleCloud and Jetpack support ARM64 nodes and ARM64 images if the cluster type provides ARM64 support. Currently, only the Slurm cluster type provides built-in ARM64 support.
    - ARM64 packages for Jetpack are available for installation in custom images. 
- Azure CycleCloud now provides `Reimage` and `Restart` actions on Virtual Machine Scale Set nodes for node recovery and repair. 
- The new `Restart` and `Reimage` actions are available via the new Azure CycleCloud REST APIs: `/clusters/{cluster}/nodes/restart` and `/clusters/{cluster}/nodes/reimage`.
- Azure CycleCloud node arrays now support attaching precreated Virtual Machine Scale Sets (also known as bring-your-own Virtual Machine Scale Sets) by setting the new `PredefinedScaleSetId` node attribute. 
- You can configure Linux nodes to run without the legacy [Chef framework](https://www.chef.io/) for nodes that don't require Chef. 
- Chef is disabled by default for new Slurm clusters, unless required by specific node configurations. 
- All filesystem mounts for cluster nodes are now persisted to `/etc/fstab`. This change ensures that filesystems properly remount upon reboot.
- Linux nodes now bind the temporary directory (`/tmp`) to a directory created on the ephemeral disk (if the machine type provides an ephemeral disk) to reduce OS disk usage.
- Azure CycleCloud supports Blobfuse2 as a mount type in cluster templates.
- When you modify node configuration settings on running clusters, you can apply changes to running nodes by issuing a reconverge command on the nodes.
- Azure CycleCloud now uses the Azure Compute RP API version 2024-11-01.
 
## Resolved problems
 
- The Azure CycleCloud UI formatting made converge errors difficult to interpret.
- The `/c/{cluster_name}` URL for direct-linking to clusters in the UI redirected to a blank page for unauthenticated users.
- Cloud-init errors were reported correctly.
- Cloud-init failures didn't differentiate user-script errors from image-level errors.
- The `azslurm nodes` CLI command sometimes failed and showed the message: "missing 'buckets' param."
- When used by non-root users, log rotation for the `azslurm` CLI failed due to log file ownership and user permissions.
- Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters stored private IP addresses in the Slurm node data. This problem led to Slurm rejecting nodes under certain conditions.
- The Azure CycleCloud UI lost the active cluster selection when it refreshed the `Issues` panel.
- The `Keep Alive` toggle in the node status report didn't work. 
- Pressing `Enter` on the sign-in page didn't submit the authentication form. 
- The default shell selection in Linux was inconsistent for different OS images.
- The `jetpack users` CLI command provided no output for some cluster types. 
- Azure CycleCloud CLI installation failed on macOS. 
- The `jetpack report_issue` CLI command failed to upload the generated log bundle.
- Using the Azure CLI `az vm run-command` on an Azure CycleCloud node caused Azure CycleCloud to flag the node as failed with the message: "An unspecified error occurred."
- Updating a cluster could fail and report an "Attribute mismatch error" for the `TerminateNotificationTimeout` and `MaxPrice` node array attributes, even when the value is unchanged.
- Azure reported an incorrect GPU count and memory size for GB200 and the incorrect data was reflected in Azure CycleCloud machine data for scheduling.
- Azure CycleCloud threw an exception during node creation if the `StartTime` attribute wasn't set on the node record. 
- Cluster nodes sometimes failed to reconverge after a `Reimage` operation because cluster-init marker files stored on the node's ephemeral disk weren't removed by the operation. 
 
 
## Breaking changes 
 
- The Jetpack package is now installed by default for custom images. 
    - To revert to the old behavior, set `InstallJetpack=false` on the node in the cluster template. 
- The Azure CycleCloud Slurm cluster now defaults to `ReturnProxy=false`.
    - To revert to the original behavior, set the `ReturnProxy` parameter to `true` during cluster creation. 
- For better default security, Azure CycleCloud Slurm clusters now disable public IPs by default.
    - To revert to the original behavior, set the `UsePublicNetwork` parameter to `true` during cluster creation.
 
 
## Known issues 
 
- The new `Restart` and `Reimage` actions are available *only- for nodes in node arrays (Virtual Machine Scale Set instances). Single nodes (individual VMs) don't yet support `Restart` or `Reimage`. For single nodes, use the Azure portal or the Azure CLI to restart or reimage the VM.
-  The Azure CycleCloud HPC Pack cluster type fails to converge.
