articles/virtual-network/virtual-network-public-ip-address-upgrade.md, before:

---
title: Upgrade public IP addresses | Microsoft Docs
titleSuffix: Azure Virtual Network
description:  Upgrade public IP addresses from Basic to Standard.
services: virtual-network
documentationcenter: na
author: blehr
editor: ''
tags: azure-resource-manager

ms.assetid: bb71abaf-b2d9-4147-b607-38067a10caf6 
ms.service: virtual-network
ms.subservice: ip-services
ms.devlang: NA
ms.topic: how-to
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: infrastructure-services
ms.date: 10/07/2020
ms.author: blehr
---

# Upgrade public IP addresses

Azure public IP addresses are created with a SKU--either Basic or Standard--which determines aspects of their functionality (including allocation method, usage across availability zones, and which resources they can be associated with).  For more information on the differences between the SKU types, please see [Public IP Addresses - SKU](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/public-ip-addresses#sku).

The following scenarios are reviewed in this article:
* How to upgrade a Basic SKU public IP to a Standard SKU public IP (using Portal, PowerShell, or CLI)
* How to migrate a Classic Azure Reserved IP to an Azure Resource Manager (ARM) Basic SKU public IP

## Upgrade public IP address from Basic to Standard SKU

In order to upgrade a public IP, it must not be associated with any resource (see [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-public-ip-address#view-modify-settings-for-or-delete-a-public-ip-address) for more information about how to disassociate public IPs).

>[!IMPORTANT]
>Public IPs upgraded from Basic to Standard SKU continue to have no [availability zones](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/availability-zones/az-overview?toc=/azure/virtual-network/toc.json#availability-zones).  This means they cannot be associated with an Azure resource that is either zone-redundant or tied to a pre-specified zone in regions where this is offered.

---
# [**Basic to Standard - Portal**](#tab/option-upgrade-portal)

The following example assumes previous creation of a Basic SKU public IP, using the example given on [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/create-public-ip-portal?tabs=option-create-public-ip-basic) with a Basic public IP **myBasicPublicIP** in **myResourceGroup**.

*Fill this out once we have Portal instructions*

# [**Basic to Standard - Powershell**](#tab/option-upgrade-powershell)

The following example assumes previous creation of a Basic SKU public IP, using the example given on [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/create-public-ip-powershell?tabs=option-create-public-ip-basic) with a Basic public IP **myBasicPublicIP** in **myResourceGroup**.

In order to upgrade the IP, simply execute the commands below using PowerShell.  Note if the IP address is already statically allocated, that section can be skipped.

```azurepowershell-interactive
## Variables for the command ##
$rg = 'myResourceGroup'
$name = 'myBasicPublicIP'
$newsku = 'Standard'
$pubIP = Get-AzPublicIpAddress -name $name -ResourceGroupName $rg

## This section is only needed if the Basic IP is not already set to Static ##
$pubIP.PublicIpAllocationMethod = 'Static'
Set-AzPublicIpAddress -PublicIpAddress $pubIP

## This section is for conversion to Standard ##
$pubIP.Sku.Name = $newsku
Set-AzPublicIpAddress -PublicIpAddress $pubIP
```

# [**Basic to Standard - CLI**](#tab/option-upgrade-cli)

The following example assumes previous creation of a Basic SKU public IP, using the example given on [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/create-public-ip-cli?tabs=option-create-public-ip-basic) with a Basic public IP **myBasicPublicIP** in **myResourceGroup**.

In order to upgrade the IP, simply execute the commands below using the Azure CLI.  Note if the IP address is already statically allocated, that section can be skipped.

```azurecli-interactive
## Variables for the command ##
$rg = 'myResourceGroup'
$name = 'myBasicPublicIP'

## This section is only needed if the Basic IP is not already set to Static ##
az network public-ip update \
--resource-group $rg \
--name $name \
--allocation-method Static 

## This section is for conversion to Standard ##
az network public-ip update \
--resource-group $rg \
--name $name \
--sku Standard
```
---

## Migrate a classic Azure Reserved IP to an Azure Resource Manager (ARM) Basic SKU public IP

To benefit from the new capabilities in Azure Resource Manager, you can migrate existing public static IP address--called Reserved IPs--from the Classic model to the modern Azure Resource Manager (ARM) model.

---
# [**Reserved to Basic - PowerShell**](#tab/option-migrate-powershell)

The following example assumes previous creation of a classic Azure Reserved IP **myReservedIP** in **myResourceGroup**. Another prerequisite for migration is to ensure the Azure Resource Manager subscription has registered for migration. This is covered in detail on Steps 3 and 4 of [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/windows/migration-classic-resource-manager-ps).

In order to migrate the Reserved IP, execute the commands below using PowerShell.  Note if the IP address is not associated with any service (below there is a service named **myService**), that step can be skipped.

```azurepowershell-interactive
## Variables for the command ##
$name = 'myReservedIP'

## This section is only needed if the Reserved IP is not already disassociated from any Cloud Services ##
$serviceName = 'myService'
Remove-AzureReservedIPAssociation -ReservedIPName $name -ServiceName $service

$validate = Move-AzureReservedIP -ReservedIPName $name -Validate
$validate.ValidationMessages
```
The previous command displays any warnings and errors that block migration. If validation is successful, you can proceed with the following steps to Prepare and Commit the migration:
```azurepowershell-interactive
Move-AzureReservedIP -ReservedIPName $name -Prepare
Move-AzureReservedIP -ReservedIPName $name -Commit
```
A new resource group in Azure Resource Manager is created using the name of the migrated Reserved IP (in the example above, it would be resource group **myReservedIP-Migrated**).

# [**Reserved to Basic - CLI**](#tab/option-migrate-cli)

The following example assumes previous creation of a classic Azure Reserved IP **myReservedIP** in **myResourceGroup**. Another prerequisite for migration is to ensure the Azure Resource Manager subscription has registered for migration. This is covered in detail on Steps 3 and 4 of [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/linux/migration-classic-resource-manager-cli).

In order to migrate the Reserved IP, execute the commands below using the Azure CLI.  Note if the IP address is not associated with any service (below there is a service named **myService** and deployment **myDeployment**), that step can be skipped.

```azurecli-interactive
## Variables for the command ##
$name = 'myReservedIP'

## This section is only needed if the Reserved IP is not already disassociated from any Cloud Services ##
$service = 'myService'
$deployment = 'myDeployment'
azure network reserved-ip disassociate $name $service $deployment

azure network reserved-ip validate-migration $name
```
The previous command displays any warnings and errors that block migration. If validation is successful, you can proceed with the following steps to Prepare and Commit the migration:
```azurecli-interactive
azure network reserved-ip prepare-migration $name
azure network reserved-ip commit-migration $name
```
A new resource group in Azure Resource Manager is created using the name of the migrated Reserved IP (in the example above, it would be resource group **myReservedIP-Migrated**).

---

### Caveats\Limitations

* Caveat 1
* Caveat 2
* Caveat 3

## Additional Information

- Learn more about [public IP addresses](virtual-network-ip-addresses-overview-arm.md#public-ip-addresses) in Azure.
- Learn more about all [public IP address settings](virtual-network-public-ip-address.md#create-a-public-ip-address).
- Learn how to [Upgrade Azure Public Load Balancers from Basic to Standard](../load-balancer/upgrade-basic-standard).

Commit message:

more fixes on upgrade doc

articles/virtual-network/virtual-network-public-ip-address-upgrade.md, after:

---
title: Upgrade public IP addresses | Microsoft Docs
titleSuffix: Azure Virtual Network
description:  Upgrade public IP addresses from Basic to Standard.
services: virtual-network
documentationcenter: na
author: blehr
editor: ''
tags: azure-resource-manager

ms.assetid: bb71abaf-b2d9-4147-b607-38067a10caf6 
ms.service: virtual-network
ms.subservice: ip-services
ms.devlang: NA
ms.topic: how-to
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: infrastructure-services
ms.date: 10/07/2020
ms.author: blehr
---

# Upgrade public IP addresses

Azure public IP addresses are created with a SKU--either Basic or Standard--which determines aspects of their functionality (including allocation method, usage across availability zones, and which resources they can be associated with).  For more information on the differences between the SKU types, please see [Public IP Addresses - SKU](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/public-ip-addresses#sku).

The following scenarios are reviewed in this article:
* How to upgrade a Basic SKU public IP to a Standard SKU public IP (using Portal, PowerShell, or CLI)
* How to migrate a Classic Azure Reserved IP to an Azure Resource Manager (ARM) Basic SKU public IP

## Upgrade public IP address from Basic to Standard SKU

In order to upgrade a public IP, it must not be associated with any resource (see [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-public-ip-address#view-modify-settings-for-or-delete-a-public-ip-address) for more information about how to disassociate public IPs).

>[!IMPORTANT]
>Public IPs upgraded from Basic to Standard SKU continue to have no [availability zones](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/availability-zones/az-overview?toc=/azure/virtual-network/toc.json#availability-zones).  This means they cannot be associated with an Azure resource that is either zone-redundant or tied to a pre-specified zone in regions where this is offered.

---
# [**Basic to Standard - Portal**](#tab/option-upgrade-portal)

The following example assumes previous creation of a Basic SKU public IP, using the example given on [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/create-public-ip-portal?tabs=option-create-public-ip-basic) with a Basic public IP **myBasicPublicIP** in **myResourceGroup**.

*Fill this out once we have Portal instructions*

# [**Basic to Standard - Powershell**](#tab/option-upgrade-powershell)

The following example assumes previous creation of a Basic SKU public IP, using the example given on [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/create-public-ip-powershell?tabs=option-create-public-ip-basic) with a Basic public IP **myBasicPublicIP** in **myResourceGroup**.

In order to upgrade the IP, simply execute the commands below using PowerShell.  Note if the IP address is already statically allocated, that section can be skipped.

```azurepowershell-interactive
## Variables for the command ##
$rg = 'myResourceGroup'
$name = 'myBasicPublicIP'
$newsku = 'Standard'
$pubIP = Get-AzPublicIpAddress -name $name -ResourceGroupName $rg

## This section is only needed if the Basic IP is not already set to Static ##
$pubIP.PublicIpAllocationMethod = 'Static'
Set-AzPublicIpAddress -PublicIpAddress $pubIP

## This section is for conversion to Standard ##
$pubIP.Sku.Name = $newsku
Set-AzPublicIpAddress -PublicIpAddress $pubIP
```

# [**Basic to Standard - CLI**](#tab/option-upgrade-cli)

The following example assumes previous creation of a Basic SKU public IP, using the example given on [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/create-public-ip-cli?tabs=option-create-public-ip-basic) with a Basic public IP **myBasicPublicIP** in **myResourceGroup**.

In order to upgrade the IP, simply execute the commands below using the Azure CLI.  Note if the IP address is already statically allocated, that section can be skipped.

```azurecli-interactive
## Variables for the command ##
$rg = 'myResourceGroup'
$name = 'myBasicPublicIP'

## This section is only needed if the Basic IP is not already set to Static ##
az network public-ip update \
--resource-group $rg \
--name $name \
--allocation-method Static 

## This section is for conversion to Standard ##
az network public-ip update \
--resource-group $rg \
--name $name \
--sku Standard
```
---

## Migrate a classic Azure Reserved IP to an Azure Resource Manager (ARM) Basic SKU public IP

To benefit from the new capabilities in Azure Resource Manager, you can migrate existing public static IP address--called Reserved IPs--from the Classic model to the modern Azure Resource Manager (ARM) model.

---

# [**Reserved to Basic - PowerShell**](#tab/option-migrate-powershell)

The following example assumes previous creation of a classic Azure Reserved IP **myReservedIP** in **myResourceGroup**. Another prerequisite for migration is to ensure the Azure Resource Manager subscription has registered for migration. This is covered in detail on Steps 3 and 4 of [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/windows/migration-classic-resource-manager-ps).

In order to migrate the Reserved IP, execute the commands below using PowerShell.  Note if the IP address is not associated with any service (below there is a service named **myService**), that step can be skipped.

```azurepowershell-interactive
## Variables for the command ##
$name = 'myReservedIP'

## This section is only needed if the Reserved IP is not already disassociated from any Cloud Services ##
$serviceName = 'myService'
Remove-AzureReservedIPAssociation -ReservedIPName $name -ServiceName $service

$validate = Move-AzureReservedIP -ReservedIPName $name -Validate
$validate.ValidationMessages
```
The previous command displays any warnings and errors that block migration. If validation is successful, you can proceed with the following steps to Prepare and Commit the migration:
```azurepowershell-interactive
Move-AzureReservedIP -ReservedIPName $name -Prepare
Move-AzureReservedIP -ReservedIPName $name -Commit
```
A new resource group in Azure Resource Manager is created using the name of the migrated Reserved IP (in the example above, it would be resource group **myReservedIP-Migrated**).

# [**Reserved to Basic - CLI**](#tab/option-migrate-cli)

The following example assumes previous creation of a classic Azure Reserved IP **myReservedIP** in **myResourceGroup**. Another prerequisite for migration is to ensure the Azure Resource Manager subscription has registered for migration. This is covered in detail on Steps 3 and 4 of [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/linux/migration-classic-resource-manager-cli).

In order to migrate the Reserved IP, execute the commands below using the Azure CLI.  Note if the IP address is not associated with any service (below there is a service named **myService** and deployment **myDeployment**), that step can be skipped.

```azurecli-interactive
## Variables for the command ##
$name = 'myReservedIP'

## This section is only needed if the Reserved IP is not already disassociated from any Cloud Services ##
$service = 'myService'
$deployment = 'myDeployment'
azure network reserved-ip disassociate $name $service $deployment

azure network reserved-ip validate-migration $name
```
The previous command displays any warnings and errors that block migration. If validation is successful, you can proceed with the following steps to Prepare and Commit the migration:
```azurecli-interactive
azure network reserved-ip prepare-migration $name
azure network reserved-ip commit-migration $name
```
A new resource group in Azure Resource Manager is created using the name of the migrated Reserved IP (in the example above, it would be resource group **myReservedIP-Migrated**).

---

## Limitations

* In order to upgrade a Basic Public IP, it cannot be associated with any Azure resource.  Please review [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-public-ip-address#view-modify-settings-for-or-delete-a-public-ip-address) for more information on how to disassociate public IPs.  Similarly, in order to migrate a Reserved IP, it cannot be associated with any Cloud Service.  Please review [this page](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/remove-public-ip-address-vm) for more information on how to disassociate reserved IPs.  
* Public IPs upgraded from Basic to Standard SKU will continue to have no [availability zones](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/availability-zones/az-overview?toc=/azure/virtual-network/toc.json#availability-zones) and therefore cannot be associated with an Azure resource that is either zone-redundant or zonal.  Note this only applies to regions that offer availability zones.

## Additional Information

- Learn more about [public IP addresses](virtual-network-ip-addresses-overview-arm.md#public-ip-addresses) in Azure.
- Learn more about all [public IP address settings](virtual-network-public-ip-address.md#create-a-public-ip-address).
- Learn how to [Upgrade Azure Public Load Balancers from Basic to Standard](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/load-balancer/upgrade-basic-standard).
- Read about [migration of Classic resources to Azure Resource Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/windows/migration-classic-resource-manager-overview).
