---
title: Get policy compliance data
description: Azure Policy evaluations and effects determine compliance. Learn how to get the compliance details of your Azure resources.
ms.date: 04/19/2021
ms.topic: how-to
---
# Get compliance data of Azure resources

One of the largest benefits of Azure Policy is the insight and controls it provides over resources
in a subscription or [management group](../../management-groups/overview.md) of subscriptions. This
control can be exercised in many different ways, such as preventing resources being created in the
wrong location, enforcing common and consistent tag usage, or auditing existing resources for
appropriate configurations and settings. In all cases, data is generated by Azure Policy to enable
you to understand the compliance state of your environment.

There are several ways to access the compliance information generated by your policy and initiative
assignments:

- Using the [Azure portal](#portal)
- Through [command line](#command-line) scripting

Before looking at the methods to report on compliance, let's look at when compliance information is
updated and the frequency and events that trigger an evaluation cycle.

> [!WARNING]
> If compliance state is being reported as **Not registered**, verify that the
> **Microsoft.PolicyInsights** Resource Provider is registered and that the user has the appropriate
> Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) permissions as described in
> [Azure RBAC permissions in Azure Policy](../overview.md#azure-rbac-permissions-in-azure-policy).

## Evaluation triggers

The results of a completed evaluation cycle are available in the `Microsoft.PolicyInsights` Resource
Provider through `PolicyStates` and `PolicyEvents` operations. For more information about the
operations of the Azure Policy Insights REST API, see
[Azure Policy Insights](/rest/api/policy/).

Evaluations of assigned policies and initiatives happen as the result of various events:

- A policy or initiative is newly assigned to a scope. It takes around 30 minutes for the assignment
  to be applied to the defined scope. Once it's applied, the evaluation cycle begins for resources
  within that scope against the newly assigned policy or initiative and depending on the effects
  used by the policy or initiative, resources are marked as compliant, non-compliant, or exempt. A
  large policy or initiative evaluated against a large scope of resources can take time. As such,
  there's no pre-defined expectation of when the evaluation cycle completes. Once it completes,
  updated compliance results are available in the portal and SDKs.

- A policy or initiative already assigned to a scope is updated. The evaluation cycle and timing for
  this scenario is the same as for a new assignment to a scope.

- A resource is deployed to or updated within a scope with an assignment via Azure Resource Manager,
  REST API, or a supported SDK. In this scenario, the effect event (append, audit, deny, deploy) and
  compliant status information for the individual resource becomes available in the portal and SDKs
  around 15 minutes later. This event doesn't cause an evaluation of other resources.

- A subscription (resource type `Microsoft.Resource/subscriptions`) is created or moved within a
  [management group hierarchy](../../management-groups/overview.md) with an assigned policy
  definition targeting the subscription resource type. Evaluation of the subscription supported
  effects (audit, auditIfNotExist, deployIfNotExists, modify), logging, and any remediation actions
  takes around 30 minutes.

- A [policy exemption](../concepts/exemption-structure.md) is created, updated, or deleted. In this
  scenario, the corresponding assignment is evaluated for the defined exemption scope.

- Standard compliance evaluation cycle. Once every 24 hours, assignments are automatically
  reevaluated. A large policy or initiative of many resources can take time, so there's no
  pre-defined expectation of when the evaluation cycle completes. Once it completes, updated
  compliance results are available in the portal and SDKs.

- The [Guest Configuration](../concepts/guest-configuration.md) resource provider is updated with
  compliance details by a managed resource.

- On-demand scan

### On-demand evaluation scan

An evaluation scan for a subscription or a resource group can be started with Azure CLI, Azure
PowerShell, a call to the REST API, or by using the
[Azure Policy Compliance Scan GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/azure-policy-compliance-scan).
This scan is an asynchronous process.

#### On-demand evaluation scan - GitHub Action

Use the
[Azure Policy Compliance Scan action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/azure-policy-compliance-scan)
to trigger an on-demand evaluation scan from your
[GitHub workflow](https://docs.github.com/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/configuring-a-workflow#about-workflows)
on one or multiple resources, resource groups, or subscriptions, and gate the workflow based on the
compliance state of resources. You can also configure the workflow to run at a scheduled time so
that you get the latest compliance status at a convenient time. Optionally, this GitHub action can
generate a report on the compliance state of scanned resources for further analysis or for
archiving.

The following example runs a compliance scan for a subscription. 

```yaml
on:
  schedule:    
    - cron:  '0 8 * * *'  # runs every morning 8am
jobs:
  assess-policy-compliance:    
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:         
    - name: Login to Azure
      uses: azure/login@v1
      with:
        creds: ${{secrets.AZURE_CREDENTIALS}} 

    
    - name: Check for resource compliance
      uses: azure/policy-compliance-scan@v0
      with:
        scopes: |
          /subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
```

For more information and workflow samples, see the
[GitHub Action for Azure Policy Compliance Scan repo](https://github.com/Azure/policy-compliance-scan).

#### On-demand evaluation scan - Azure CLI

The compliance scan is started with the
[az policy state trigger-scan](/cli/azure/policy/state#az_policy_state_trigger_scan) command.

By default, `az policy state trigger-scan` starts an evaluation for all resources in the current
subscription. To start an evaluation on a specific resource group, use the **resource-group**
parameter. The following example starts a compliance scan in the current subscription for the _MyRG_
resource group:

```azurecli-interactive
az policy state trigger-scan --resource-group "MyRG"
```

You can choose not to wait for the asynchronous process to complete before continuing with the
**no-wait** parameter.

#### On-demand evaluation scan - Azure PowerShell

The compliance scan is started with the
[Start-AzPolicyComplianceScan](/powershell/module/az.policyinsights/start-azpolicycompliancescan)
cmdlet.

By default, `Start-AzPolicyComplianceScan` starts an evaluation for all resources in the current
subscription. To start an evaluation on a specific resource group, use the **ResourceGroupName**
parameter. The following example starts a compliance scan in the current subscription for the _MyRG_
resource group:

```azurepowershell-interactive
Start-AzPolicyComplianceScan -ResourceGroupName 'MyRG'
```

You can have PowerShell wait for the asynchronous call to complete before providing the results
output or have it run in the background as a
[job](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_jobs). To use a PowerShell job to run
the compliance scan in the background, use the **AsJob** parameter and set the value to an object,
such as `$job` in this example:

```azurepowershell-interactive
$job = Start-AzPolicyComplianceScan -AsJob
```

You can check on the status of the job by checking on the `$job` object. The job is of the type
`Microsoft.Azure.Commands.Common.AzureLongRunningJob`. Use `Get-Member` on the `$job` object to see
available properties and methods.

While the compliance scan is running, checking the `$job` object outputs results such as these:

```azurepowershell-interactive
$job

Id     Name            PSJobTypeName   State         HasMoreData     Location             Command
--     ----            -------------   -----         -----------     --------             -------
2      Long Running O… AzureLongRunni… Running       True            localhost            Start-AzPolicyCompliance…
```

When the compliance scan completes, the **State** property changes to _Completed_.

#### On-demand evaluation scan - REST

As an asynchronous process, the REST endpoint to start the scan doesn't wait until the scan is
complete to respond. Instead, it provides a URI to query the status of the requested evaluation.

In each REST API URI, there are variables that are used that you need to replace with your own
values:

- `{YourRG}` - Replace with the name of your resource group
- `{subscriptionId}` - Replace with your subscription ID

The scan supports evaluation of resources in a subscription or in a resource group. Start a scan by
scope with a REST API **POST** command using the following URI structures:

- Subscription

  ```http
  POST https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/latest/triggerEvaluation?api-version=2019-10-01
  ```

- Resource group

  ```http
  POST https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{YourRG}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/latest/triggerEvaluation?api-version=2019-10-01
  ```

The call returns a **202 Accepted** status. Included in the response header is a **Location**
property with the following format:

```http
https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/asyncOperationResults/{ResourceContainerGUID}?api-version=2019-10-01
```

`{ResourceContainerGUID}` is statically generated for the scope requested. If a scope is already
running an on-demand scan, a new scan isn't started. Instead, the new request is provided the same
`{ResourceContainerGUID}` **location** URI for status. A REST API **GET** command to the
**Location** URI returns a **202 Accepted** while the evaluation is ongoing. When the evaluation
scan has completed, it returns a **200 OK** status. The body of a completed scan is a JSON response
with the status:

```json
{
    "status": "Succeeded"
}
```

#### On-demand evaluation scan - Visual Studio Code

The Azure Policy extension for Visual Studio code is capable of running an evaluation scan for a
specific resource. This scan is a synchronous process, unlike the Azure PowerShell and REST methods.
For details and steps, see
[On-demand evaluation with the VS Code extension](./extension-for-vscode.md#on-demand-evaluation-scan).

## How compliance works

In an assignment, a resource is **Non-compliant** if it doesn't follow policy or initiative rules
and isn't _exempt_. The following table shows how different policy effects work with the condition
evaluation for the resulting compliance state:

| Resource State | Effect | Policy Evaluation | Compliance State |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| New or Updated | Audit, Modify, AuditIfNotExist | True | Non-Compliant |
| New or Updated | Audit, Modify, AuditIfNotExist | False | Compliant |
| Exists | Deny, Audit, Append, Modify, DeployIfNotExist, AuditIfNotExist | True | Non-Compliant |
| Exists | Deny, Audit, Append, Modify, DeployIfNotExist, AuditIfNotExist | False | Compliant |

> [!NOTE]
> The DeployIfNotExist and AuditIfNotExist effects require the IF statement to be TRUE and the
> existence condition to be FALSE to be non-compliant. When TRUE, the IF condition triggers
> evaluation of the existence condition for the related resources.

For example, assume that you have a resource group – ContsoRG, with some storage accounts
(highlighted in red) that are exposed to public networks.

:::image type="complex" source="../media/getting-compliance-data/resource-group01.png" alt-text="Diagram of storage accounts exposed to public networks in the Contoso R G resource group." border="false":::
   Diagram showing images for five storage accounts in the Contoso R G resource group.  Storage accounts one and three are blue, while storage accounts two, four, and five are red.
:::image-end:::

In this example, you need to be wary of security risks. Now that you've created a policy assignment,
it's evaluated for all included and non-exempt storage accounts in the ContosoRG resource group. It
audits the three non-compliant storage accounts, consequently changing their states to
**Non-compliant.**

:::image type="complex" source="../media/getting-compliance-data/resource-group03.png" alt-text="Diagram of storage account compliance in the Contoso R G resource group." border="false":::
   Diagram showing images for five storage accounts in the Contoso R G resource group. Storage accounts one and three now have green checkmarks beneath them, while storage accounts two, four, and five now have red warning signs beneath them.
:::image-end:::

Besides **Compliant** and **Non-compliant**, policies and resources have four other states:

- **Exempt**: The resource is in scope of an assignment, but has a
  [defined exemption](../concepts/exemption-structure.md).
- **Conflicting**: Two or more policy definitions exist with conflicting rules. For example, two
  definitions append the same tag with different values.
- **Not started**: The evaluation cycle hasn't started for the policy or resource.
- **Not registered**: The Azure Policy Resource Provider hasn't been registered or the account
  logged in doesn't have permission to read compliance data.

Azure Policy uses the **type**, **name**, or **kind** fields in the definition to determine if a
resource is a match. When the resource matches, it's considered applicable and has a status of
either **Compliant**, **Non-compliant**, or **Exempt**. If either **type**, **name**, or **kind** is
the only property in the definition, then all included and non-exempt resources are considered
applicable and are evaluated.

The compliance percentage is determined by dividing **Compliant** and **Exempt** resources by _total
resources_. _Total resources_ is defined as the sum of the **Compliant**, **Non-compliant**,
**Exempt**, and **Conflicting** resources. The overall compliance numbers are the sum of distinct
resources that are **Compliant** or **Exempt** divided by the sum of all distinct resources. In the
image below, there are 20 distinct resources that are applicable and only one is **Non-compliant**.
The overall resource compliance is 95% (19 out of 20).

:::image type="content" source="../media/getting-compliance-data/simple-compliance.png" alt-text="Screenshot of policy compliance details from Compliance page." border="false":::

> [!NOTE]
> Regulatory Compliance in Azure Policy is a Preview feature. Compliance properties from SDK and
> pages in portal are different for enabled initiatives. For more information, see
> [Regulatory Compliance](../concepts/regulatory-compliance.md)

## Portal

The Azure portal showcases a graphical experience of visualizing and understanding the state of
compliance in your environment. On the **Policy** page, the **Overview** option provides details for
available scopes on the compliance of both policies and initiatives. Along with the compliance state
and count per assignment, it contains a chart showing compliance over the last seven days. The
**Compliance** page contains much of this same information (except the chart), but provide
additional filtering and sorting options.

:::image type="content" source="../media/getting-compliance-data/compliance-page.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Compliance page, filtering options, and details." border="false":::

Since a policy or initiative can be assigned to different scopes, the table includes the scope for
each assignment and the type of definition that was assigned. The number of non-compliant resources
and non-compliant policies for each assignment are also provided. Selecting on a policy or
initiative in the table provides a deeper look at the compliance for that particular assignment.

:::image type="content" source="../media/getting-compliance-data/compliance-details.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Compliance Details page, including counts and resource compliant details." border="false":::

The list of resources on the **Resource compliance** tab shows the evaluation status of existing
resources for the current assignment. The tab defaults to **Non-compliant**, but can be filtered.
Events (append, audit, deny, deploy, modify) triggered by the request to create a resource are shown
under the **Events** tab.

> [!NOTE]
> For an AKS Engine policy, the resource shown is the resource group.

:::image type="content" source="../media/getting-compliance-data/compliance-events.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Events tab on Compliance Details page." border="false":::

<a name="component-compliance"></a>
For [Resource Provider mode](../concepts/definition-structure.md#resource-provider-modes) resources,
on the **Resource compliance** tab, selecting the resource or right-clicking on the row and
selecting **View compliance details** opens the component compliance details. This page also offers
tabs to see the policies that are assigned to this resource, events, component events, and change
history.

:::image type="content" source="../media/getting-compliance-data/compliance-components.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Component Compliance tab and compliance details for a Resource Provider mode assignment." border="false":::

Back on the resource compliance page, right-click on the row of the event you would like to gather
more details on and select **Show activity logs**. The activity log page opens and is pre-filtered
to the search showing details for the assignment and the events. The activity log provides
additional context and information about those events.

:::image type="content" source="../media/getting-compliance-data/compliance-activitylog.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Activity Log for Azure Policy activities and evaluations." border="false":::

### Understand non-compliance

When a resource is determined to be **non-compliant**, there are many possible reasons. To determine
the reason a resource is **non-compliant** or to find the change responsible, see
[Determine non-compliance](./determine-non-compliance.md).

## Command line

The same information available in the portal can be retrieved with the REST API (including with
[ARMClient](https://github.com/projectkudu/ARMClient)), Azure PowerShell, and Azure CLI. For full
details on the REST API, see the [Azure Policy](/rest/api/policy/) reference. The REST API reference
pages have a green 'Try It' button on each operation that allows you to try it right in the browser.

Use ARMClient or a similar tool to handle authentication to Azure for the REST API examples.

### Summarize results

With the REST API, summarization can be performed by container, definition, or assignment. Here is
an example of summarization at the subscription level using Azure Policy Insight's [Summarize For
Subscription](/rest/api/policy/policystates/summarizeforsubscription):

```http
POST https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/latest/summarize?api-version=2019-10-01
```

The output summarizes the subscription. In the example output below, the summarized compliance are
under **value.results.nonCompliantResources** and **value.results.nonCompliantPolicies**. This
request provides further details, including each assignment that made up the non-compliant numbers
and the definition information for each assignment. Each policy object in the hierarchy provides a
**queryResultsUri** that can be used to get additional detail at that level.

```json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#summary",
    "@odata.count": 1,
    "value": [{
        "@odata.id": null,
        "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#summary/$entity",
        "results": {
            "queryResultsUri": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/latest/queryResults?api-version=2019-10-01&$from=2018-05-18 04:28:22Z&$to=2018-05-19 04:28:22Z&$filter=ComplianceState eq 'NonCompliant'",
            "nonCompliantResources": 15,
            "nonCompliantPolicies": 1
        },
        "policyAssignments": [{
            "policyAssignmentId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourcegroups/rg-tags/providers/microsoft.authorization/policyassignments/37ce239ae4304622914f0c77",
            "policySetDefinitionId": "",
            "results": {
                "queryResultsUri": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/latest/queryResults?api-version=2019-10-01&$from=2018-05-18 04:28:22Z&$to=2018-05-19 04:28:22Z&$filter=ComplianceState eq 'NonCompliant' and PolicyAssignmentId eq '/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourcegroups/rg-tags/providers/microsoft.authorization/policyassignments/37ce239ae4304622914f0c77'",
                "nonCompliantResources": 15,
                "nonCompliantPolicies": 1
            },
            "policyDefinitions": [{
                "policyDefinitionReferenceId": "",
                "policyDefinitionId": "/providers/microsoft.authorization/policydefinitions/1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62",
                "effect": "deny",
                "results": {
                    "queryResultsUri": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/latest/queryResults?api-version=2019-10-01&$from=2018-05-18 04:28:22Z&$to=2018-05-19 04:28:22Z&$filter=ComplianceState eq 'NonCompliant' and PolicyAssignmentId eq '/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourcegroups/rg-tags/providers/microsoft.authorization/policyassignments/37ce239ae4304622914f0c77' and PolicyDefinitionId eq '/providers/microsoft.authorization/policydefinitions/1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62'",
                    "nonCompliantResources": 15
                }
            }]
        }]
    }]
}
```

### Query for resources

In the example above, **value.policyAssignments.policyDefinitions.results.queryResultsUri** provides
a sample Uri for all non-compliant resources for a specific policy definition. Looking at the
**$filter** value, ComplianceState is equal (eq) to 'NonCompliant', PolicyAssignmentId is specified
for the policy definition, and then the PolicyDefinitionId itself. The reason for including the
PolicyAssignmentId in the filter is because the PolicyDefinitionId could exist in several policy or
initiative assignments with different scopes. By specifying both the PolicyAssignmentId and the
PolicyDefinitionId, we can be explicit in the results we're looking for. Previously, for
PolicyStates we used **latest**, which automatically sets a **from** and **to** time window of the
last 24-hours.

```http
https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/latest/queryResults?api-version=2019-10-01&$from=2018-05-18 04:28:22Z&$to=2018-05-19 04:28:22Z&$filter=ComplianceState eq 'NonCompliant' and PolicyAssignmentId eq '/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourcegroups/rg-tags/providers/microsoft.authorization/policyassignments/37ce239ae4304622914f0c77' and PolicyDefinitionId eq '/providers/microsoft.authorization/policydefinitions/1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62'
```

The example response below has been trimmed to a single non-compliant resource for brevity. The
detailed response has several pieces of data about the resource, the policy or initiative, and the
assignment. Notice that you can also see what assignment parameters were passed to the policy
definition.

```json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest",
    "@odata.count": 15,
    "value": [{
        "@odata.id": null,
        "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest/$entity",
        "timestamp": "2018-05-19T04:41:09Z",
        "resourceId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/rg-tags/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/linux",
        "policyAssignmentId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/rg-tags/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyAssignments/37ce239ae4304622914f0c77",
        "policyDefinitionId": "/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions/1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62",
        "effectiveParameters": "",
        "ComplianceState": "NonCompliant",
        "subscriptionId": "{subscriptionId}",
        "resourceType": "/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines",
        "resourceLocation": "westus2",
        "resourceGroup": "RG-Tags",
        "resourceTags": "tbd",
        "policyAssignmentName": "37ce239ae4304622914f0c77",
        "policyAssignmentOwner": "tbd",
        "policyAssignmentParameters": "{\"tagName\":{\"value\":\"costCenter\"},\"tagValue\":{\"value\":\"Contoso-Test\"}}",
        "policyAssignmentScope": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags",
        "policyDefinitionName": "1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62",
        "policyDefinitionAction": "deny",
        "policyDefinitionCategory": "tbd",
        "policySetDefinitionId": "",
        "policySetDefinitionName": "",
        "policySetDefinitionOwner": "",
        "policySetDefinitionCategory": "",
        "policySetDefinitionParameters": "",
        "managementGroupIds": "",
        "policyDefinitionReferenceId": ""
    }]
}
```

### View events

When a resource is created or updated, a policy evaluation result is generated. Results are called
_policy events_. Use the following Uri to view recent policy events associated with the
subscription.

```http
https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyEvents/default/queryResults?api-version=2019-10-01
```

Your results resemble the following example:

```json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyEvents/$metadata#default",
    "@odata.count": 1,
    "value": [{
        "@odata.id": null,
        "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyEvents/$metadata#default/$entity",
        "NumAuditEvents": 16
    }]
}
```

For more information about querying policy events, see the
[Azure Policy Events](/rest/api/policy/policyevents) reference article.

### Azure CLI

The [Azure CLI](/cli/azure/what-is-azure-cli) command group for Azure Policy covers most operations
that are available in REST or Azure PowerShell. For the full list of available commands, see
[Azure CLI - Azure Policy Overview](/cli/azure/policy).

Example: Getting the state summary for the topmost assigned policy with the highest number of
non-compliant resources.

```azurecli-interactive
az policy state summarize --top 1
```

The top portion of the response looks like this example:

```json
{
    "odatacontext": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#summary/$entity",
    "odataid": null,
    "policyAssignments": [{
            "policyAssignmentId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/microsoft.authorization/policyassignments/e0704696df5e4c3c81c873e8",
            "policyDefinitions": [{
                "effect": "audit",
                "policyDefinitionGroupNames": [
                    ""
                ],
                "policyDefinitionId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/microsoft.authorization/policydefinitions/2e3197b6-1f5b-4b01-920c-b2f0a7e9b18a",
                "policyDefinitionReferenceId": "",
                "results": {
                    "nonCompliantPolicies": null,
                    "nonCompliantResources": 398,
                    "policyDetails": [{
                        "complianceState": "noncompliant",
                        "count": 1
                    }],
                    "policyGroupDetails": [{
                        "complianceState": "noncompliant",
                        "count": 1
                    }],
                    "queryResultsUri": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/latest/queryResults?api-version=2019-10-01&$from=2020-07-14 14:01:22Z&$to=2020-07-15 14:01:22Z and PolicyAssignmentId eq '/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/microsoft.authorization/policyassignments/e0704696df5e4c3c81c873e8' and PolicyDefinitionId eq '/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/microsoft.authorization/policydefinitions/2e3197b6-1f5b-4b01-920c-b2f0a7e9b18a'",
                    "resourceDetails": [{
                            "complianceState": "noncompliant",
                            "count": 398
                        },
                        {
                            "complianceState": "compliant",
                            "count": 4
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }],
    ...
```

Example: Getting the state record for the most recently evaluated resource (default is by timestamp
in descending order).

```azurecli-interactive
az policy state list --top 1
```

```json
[
  {
    "complianceReasonCode": "",
    "complianceState": "Compliant",
    "effectiveParameters": "",
    "isCompliant": true,
    "managementGroupIds": "{managementgroupId}",
    "odatacontext": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest/$entity",
    "odataid": null,
    "policyAssignmentId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/microsoft.authorization/policyassignments/securitycenterbuiltin",
    "policyAssignmentName": "SecurityCenterBuiltIn",
    "policyAssignmentOwner": "tbd",
    "policyAssignmentParameters": "",
    "policyAssignmentScope": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}",
    "policyAssignmentVersion": "",
    "policyDefinitionAction": "auditifnotexists",
    "policyDefinitionCategory": "tbd",
    "policyDefinitionGroupNames": [
      ""
    ],
    "policyDefinitionId": "/providers/microsoft.authorization/policydefinitions/aa633080-8b72-40c4-a2d7-d00c03e80bed",
    "policyDefinitionName": "aa633080-8b72-40c4-a2d7-d00c03e80bed",
    "policyDefinitionReferenceId": "identityenablemfaforownerpermissionsmonitoring",
    "policyDefinitionVersion": "",
    "policyEvaluationDetails": null,
    "policySetDefinitionCategory": "security center",
    "policySetDefinitionId": "/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policySetDefinitions/1f3afdf9-d0c9-4c3d-847f-89da613e70a8",
    "policySetDefinitionName": "1f3afdf9-d0c9-4c3d-847f-89da613e70a8",
    "policySetDefinitionOwner": "",
    "policySetDefinitionParameters": "",
    "policySetDefinitionVersion": "",
    "resourceGroup": "",
    "resourceId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}",
    "resourceLocation": "",
    "resourceTags": "tbd",
    "resourceType": "Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions",
    "subscriptionId": "{subscriptionId}",
    "timestamp": "2020-07-15T08:37:07.903433+00:00"
  }
]
```

Example: Getting the details for all non-compliant virtual network resources.

```azurecli-interactive
az policy state list --filter "ResourceType eq 'Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks'"
```

```json
[
  {
    "complianceReasonCode": "",
    "complianceState": "NonCompliant",
    "effectiveParameters": "",
    "isCompliant": false,
    "managementGroupIds": "{managementgroupId}",
    "odatacontext": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest/$entity",
    "odataid": null,
    "policyAssignmentId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/microsoft.authorization/policyassignments/e0704696df5e4c3c81c873e8",
    "policyAssignmentName": "e0704696df5e4c3c81c873e8",
    "policyAssignmentOwner": "tbd",
    "policyAssignmentParameters": "",
    "policyAssignmentScope": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}",
    "policyAssignmentVersion": "",
    "policyDefinitionAction": "audit",
    "policyDefinitionCategory": "tbd",
    "policyDefinitionGroupNames": [
      ""
    ],
    "policyDefinitionId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/microsoft.authorization/policydefinitions/2e3197b6-1f5b-4b01-920c-b2f0a7e9b18a",
    "policyDefinitionName": "2e3197b6-1f5b-4b01-920c-b2f0a7e9b18a",
    "policyDefinitionReferenceId": "",
    "policyDefinitionVersion": "",
    "policyEvaluationDetails": null,
    "policySetDefinitionCategory": "",
    "policySetDefinitionId": "",
    "policySetDefinitionName": "",
    "policySetDefinitionOwner": "",
    "policySetDefinitionParameters": "",
    "policySetDefinitionVersion": "",
    "resourceGroup": "RG-Tags",
    "resourceId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/RG-Tags-vnet",
    "resourceLocation": "westus2",
    "resourceTags": "tbd",
    "resourceType": "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks",
    "subscriptionId": "{subscriptionId}",
    "timestamp": "2020-07-15T08:37:07.901911+00:00"
  }
]
```

Example: Getting events related to non-compliant virtual network resources that occurred after a
specific date.

```azurecli-interactive
az policy state list --filter "ResourceType eq 'Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks'" --from '2020-07-14T00:00:00Z'
```

```json
[
  {
    "complianceReasonCode": "",
    "complianceState": "NonCompliant",
    "effectiveParameters": "",
    "isCompliant": false,
    "managementGroupIds": "{managementgroupId}",
    "odatacontext": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest/$entity",
    "odataid": null,
    "policyAssignmentId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/microsoft.authorization/policyassignments/e0704696df5e4c3c81c873e8",
    "policyAssignmentName": "e0704696df5e4c3c81c873e8",
    "policyAssignmentOwner": "tbd",
    "policyAssignmentParameters": "",
    "policyAssignmentScope": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}",
    "policyAssignmentVersion": "",
    "policyDefinitionAction": "audit",
    "policyDefinitionCategory": "tbd",
    "policyDefinitionGroupNames": [
      ""
    ],
    "policyDefinitionId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/microsoft.authorization/policydefinitions/2e3197b6-1f5b-4b01-920c-b2f0a7e9b18a",
    "policyDefinitionName": "2e3197b6-1f5b-4b01-920c-b2f0a7e9b18a",
    "policyDefinitionReferenceId": "",
    "policyDefinitionVersion": "",
    "policyEvaluationDetails": null,
    "policySetDefinitionCategory": "",
    "policySetDefinitionId": "",
    "policySetDefinitionName": "",
    "policySetDefinitionOwner": "",
    "policySetDefinitionParameters": "",
    "policySetDefinitionVersion": "",
    "resourceGroup": "RG-Tags",
    "resourceId": "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/RG-Tags-vnet",
    "resourceLocation": "westus2",
    "resourceTags": "tbd",
    "resourceType": "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks",
    "subscriptionId": "{subscriptionId}",
    "timestamp": "2020-07-15T08:37:07.901911+00:00"
  }
]
```

### Azure PowerShell

The Azure PowerShell module for Azure Policy is available on the PowerShell Gallery as
[Az.PolicyInsights](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Az.PolicyInsights). Using
PowerShellGet, you can install the module using `Install-Module -Name Az.PolicyInsights` (make sure
you have the latest [Azure PowerShell](/powershell/azure/install-az-ps) installed):

```azurepowershell-interactive
# Install from PowerShell Gallery via PowerShellGet
Install-Module -Name Az.PolicyInsights

# Import the downloaded module
Import-Module Az.PolicyInsights

# Login with Connect-AzAccount if not using Cloud Shell
Connect-AzAccount
```

The module has the following cmdlets:

- `Get-AzPolicyStateSummary`
- `Get-AzPolicyState`
- `Get-AzPolicyEvent`
- `Get-AzPolicyRemediation`
- `Remove-AzPolicyRemediation`
- `Start-AzPolicyRemediation`
- `Stop-AzPolicyRemediation`

Example: Getting the state summary for the topmost assigned policy with the highest number of
non-compliant resources.

```azurepowershell-interactive
PS> Get-AzPolicyStateSummary -Top 1

NonCompliantResources : 15
NonCompliantPolicies  : 1
PolicyAssignments     : {/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourcegroups/RG-Tags/providers/micros
                        oft.authorization/policyassignments/37ce239ae4304622914f0c77}
```

Example: Getting the state record for the most recently evaluated resource (default is by timestamp
in descending order).

```azurepowershell-interactive
PS> Get-AzPolicyState -Top 1

Timestamp                  : 5/22/2018 3:47:34 PM
ResourceId                 : /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags/providers/Mi
                             crosoft.Network/networkInterfaces/linux316
PolicyAssignmentId         : /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags/providers/Mi
                             crosoft.Authorization/policyAssignments/37ce239ae4304622914f0c77
PolicyDefinitionId         : /providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions/1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62
ComplianceState            : NonCompliant
SubscriptionId             : {subscriptionId}
ResourceType               : /Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces
ResourceLocation           : westus2
ResourceGroup              : RG-Tags
ResourceTags               : tbd
PolicyAssignmentName       : 37ce239ae4304622914f0c77
PolicyAssignmentOwner      : tbd
PolicyAssignmentParameters : {"tagName":{"value":"costCenter"},"tagValue":{"value":"Contoso-Test"}}
PolicyAssignmentScope      : /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags
PolicyDefinitionName       : 1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62
PolicyDefinitionAction     : deny
PolicyDefinitionCategory   : tbd
```

Example: Getting the details for all non-compliant virtual network resources.

```azurepowershell-interactive
PS> Get-AzPolicyState -Filter "ResourceType eq '/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks'"

Timestamp                  : 5/22/2018 4:02:20 PM
ResourceId                 : /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags/providers/Mi
                             crosoft.Network/virtualNetworks/RG-Tags-vnet
PolicyAssignmentId         : /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags/providers/Mi
                             crosoft.Authorization/policyAssignments/37ce239ae4304622914f0c77
PolicyDefinitionId         : /providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions/1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62
ComplianceState            : NonCompliant
SubscriptionId             : {subscriptionId}
ResourceType               : /Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks
ResourceLocation           : westus2
ResourceGroup              : RG-Tags
ResourceTags               : tbd
PolicyAssignmentName       : 37ce239ae4304622914f0c77
PolicyAssignmentOwner      : tbd
PolicyAssignmentParameters : {"tagName":{"value":"costCenter"},"tagValue":{"value":"Contoso-Test"}}
PolicyAssignmentScope      : /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags
PolicyDefinitionName       : 1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62
PolicyDefinitionAction     : deny
PolicyDefinitionCategory   : tbd
```

Example: Getting events related to non-compliant virtual network resources that occurred after a
specific date, converting to a CSV object, and exporting to a file.

```azurepowershell-interactive
$policyEvents = Get-AzPolicyEvent -Filter "ResourceType eq '/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks'" -From '2020-09-19'
$policyEvents | ConvertTo-Csv | Out-File 'C:\temp\policyEvents.csv'
```

The output of the `$policyEvents` object looks like the following output:

```output
Timestamp                  : 9/19/2020 5:18:53 AM
ResourceId                 : /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags/providers/Mi
                             crosoft.Network/virtualNetworks/RG-Tags-vnet
PolicyAssignmentId         : /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags/providers/Mi
                             crosoft.Authorization/policyAssignments/37ce239ae4304622914f0c77
PolicyDefinitionId         : /providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions/1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62
ComplianceState            : NonCompliant
SubscriptionId             : {subscriptionId}
ResourceType               : /Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks
ResourceLocation           : eastus
ResourceGroup              : RG-Tags
ResourceTags               : tbd
PolicyAssignmentName       : 37ce239ae4304622914f0c77
PolicyAssignmentOwner      : tbd
PolicyAssignmentParameters : {"tagName":{"value":"costCenter"},"tagValue":{"value":"Contoso-Test"}}
PolicyAssignmentScope      : /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/RG-Tags
PolicyDefinitionName       : 1e30110a-5ceb-460c-a204-c1c3969c6d62
PolicyDefinitionAction     : deny
PolicyDefinitionCategory   : tbd
TenantId                   : {tenantId}
PrincipalOid               : {principalOid}
```

The **PrincipalOid** field can be used to get a specific user with the Azure PowerShell cmdlet
`Get-AzADUser`. Replace **{principalOid}** with the response you get from the previous
example.

```azurepowershell-interactive
PS> (Get-AzADUser -ObjectId {principalOid}).DisplayName
Trent Baker
```

## Azure Monitor logs

If you have a [Log Analytics workspace](../../../azure-monitor/logs/log-query-overview.md) with
`AzureActivity` from the
[Activity Log Analytics solution](../../../azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log.md) tied to your
subscription, you can also view non-compliance results from the evaluation of new and updated
resources using simple Kusto queries and the `AzureActivity` table. With details in Azure Monitor
logs, alerts can be configured to watch for non-compliance.

:::image type="content" source="../media/getting-compliance-data/compliance-loganalytics.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Monitor logs showing Azure Policy actions in the AzureActivity table." border="false":::

## Next steps

- Review examples at [Azure Policy samples](../samples/index.md).
- Review the [Azure Policy definition structure](../concepts/definition-structure.md).
- Review [Understanding policy effects](../concepts/effects.md).
- Understand how to [programmatically create policies](programmatically-create.md).
- Learn how to [remediate non-compliant resources](remediate-resources.md).
- Review what a management group is with [Organize your resources with Azure management groups](../../management-groups/overview.md).
