---
title: CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm - Release Notes 2024.11.08
description: Read product release notes for Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2024.11.08. See a list of new features and known issues.
author: xpillons
ms.date: 12/11/2024
ms.author: xpillons
---

# CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.11.08

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2024.11.08 was released as General Audience. This article provides you with information about:

* Recent releases
* Previews underway with known limitations (if applicable)
* Known issues
* Deprecated functionality (if applicable)

The following release notes identify the new features and the open issues for the 2024.11.08 release of Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

The release notes are continuously updated. Open known issues that require a workaround are added when they're discovered. Carefully review the information in the release notes before deploying Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

This release corresponds to the software version:

- **CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.11.08** 

## What's new in CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.11.08?

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm is updated regularly. Stay up to date with the latest announcements. 

This release contains the following new features:

* Use CycleCloud MarketPlace Image 8.6.5
* Add outbound HTTPS rule when using Azure Bastion
* Applied nodearray tags to all nodes, not only compute


## Known issues in this release

- When deleting the resource group or the CycleCloud VM, role assignments at the subscription level are not automatically removed. To resolve this see [How to clean up roles using the CLI](../../how-to/ccws/cleanup-roles.md).
- **Azure US Gov Only**: Marketplace deployment validation failed due to an incorrect API version. To mitigate this, [How to deploy a CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm environment using the CLI](../../how-to/ccws/deploy-with-cli.md).
- Custom image need to be stored in a Compute Gallery [#126](https://github.com/Azure/cyclecloud-slurm-workspace/issues/126)
- Large Azure Managed Lustre Filesystem may failed to deploy because the `lustre` subnet is too small
- Creating using az cli failed with error RoleAssignmentUpdateNotPermitted [#139] (https://github.com/Azure/cyclecloud-slurm-workspace/issues/139)
