---
title: CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm - Release Notes 2024.09.18
description: Read product release notes for Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2024.09.18. See a list of new features and known issues.
author: xpillons
ms.date: 09/04/2024
ms.author: xpillons
---

# CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.09.18

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2024.09.18 was released as General Audience. This article provides you with information about:

* Recent releases
* Previews underway with known limitations (if applicable)
* Known issues
* Deprecated functionality (if applicable)

The following release notes identify the new features and the open issues for the 2024.09.18 release of Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

The release notes are continuously updated. Open known issues that require a workaround are added when they're discovered. Carefully review the information in the release notes before deploying Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

This release corresponds to the software version:

- **CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.09.18** 

## What's new in CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.09.18?

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm is updated regularly. Stay up to date with the latest announcements. 

This release contains the following new features:

* Build a ready-to-go HPC/AI  Slurm infrastructure.
* Support to build or use an existing Azure Netapp Files NFS Volume for users home directories and additional NFS mounts.
* Support to build or use an existing Azure Managed Lustre Filesystem for additional project storage.
* Optionally create an Azure Bastion.
* Optionally create NAT Gateway for outbound connections.
* Optionally create a VNET Peering for enterprise connectivity.
* Support connecting to an existing Azure Database for MySQL flexible server instance for Slurm job accounting.
* Support AlmaLinux 8.7, Ubuntu 20.04 and Ubuntu 22.04 Azure HPC marketplace images for Scheduler, Login and, compute nodes.
* Preset of HTC, HPC, and GPU Slurm Partitions with autoscaling enabled.
* Support for Node Health Checks for the HPC and GPU partition nodes.
* Enroot 3.5.0 with Pyxis 0.19.0 configured to support container based jobs.
* Support for resource tagging.
* Script utilities to connect through Azure Bastion.
* Script utility to deploy from the CLI.
* Local Users only managed with CycleCloud.


## Known issues in this release

- When deleting the resource group or the CycleCloud VM, role assignments at the subscription level are not automatically removed. To resolve this, use the `delete_roles.sh` utility script.
- **Azure US Gov Only**: Marketplace deployment validation failed due to an incorrect API version. To mitigate this, deploy using the CLI.

## Next steps

* [What is Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm?](../../overview-ccws.md)
* [Deploy Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm](../../how-to/ccws/plan-your-deployment.md)
