---
title: CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm - Release Notes 2024.12.18
description: Read product release notes for Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2024.12.18. See a list of new features and known issues.
author: xpillons
ms.date: 12/16/2024
ms.author: xpillons
---

# CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.12.18

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2024.12.18 was released as General Audience. This article provides you with information about:

* Recent releases
* Previews underway with known limitations (if applicable)
* Known issues
* Deprecated functionality (if applicable)

The following release notes identify the new features and the open issues for the 2024.12.18 release of Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

The release notes are continuously updated. Open known issues that require a workaround are added when they're discovered. Carefully review the information in the release notes before deploying Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

This release corresponds to the software version:

- **CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.12.18** 

## What's new in CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.12.18?

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm is updated regularly. Stay up to date with the latest announcements. 

This release contains the following new features:

* Usage of CycleCloud Marketplace Image 8.7.0
* Removal of AlmaLinux 8.7 and addition of AlmaLinux 8.10 for Scheduler, Login, and compute nodes
* Automatic collection of CycleCloud and Slurm logs for compute nodes
* Allow the use of custom images not stored in a compute gallery
* Change of default networking option to auto-create
* Update Slurm version
* Vnet size is driven by the Lustre cluster size
* Role Assignments GUID are now based on CycleCloud VM PrincipalID which allow re-deploying in the same Resource Group multiple times
* Create a Resource Group is now the default setting
* Remove the need of a SAS key when accessing the storage account used for storing CycleCloud project files from nodes
* Sched disk is persistent

## Known issues in this release

- When deploying on an existing environment prior to this release, you must first cleanup the role assignements otherwise there will be a failure recreating them. To resolve this see [How to clean up roles using the CLI](../../how-to/ccws/cleanup-roles.md).
- When removing the CycleCloud VM, there will be orphan role assignments left at the subscription level. Those can be listed using `unknown` as the role assignee, and needs to be explicitly removed.
- **Azure US Gov Only**: Marketplace deployment validation failed due to an incorrect API version. To mitigate this, [How to deploy a CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm environment using the CLI](../../how-to/ccws/deploy-with-cli.md).

