---
title: CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm - Release Notes 2024.12.18
description: Read product release notes for Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2024.12.18. See a list of new features and known issues.
author: xpillons
ms.date: 03/05/2025
ms.author: padmalathas
---

# CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.12.18

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2024.12.18 was released as General Audience. This article provides you with information about:

* Recent releases
* Previews underway with known limitations (if applicable)
* Known issues
* Deprecated functionality (if applicable)

The following release notes identify the new features and the open issues for the 2024.12.18 release of Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

The release notes are continuously updated. Open known issues that require a workaround are added when they're discovered. Carefully review the information in the release notes before deploying Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

This release corresponds to the software version:

- **CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.12.18** 

## What's new in CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2024.12.18?

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm is updated regularly. Stay up to date with the latest announcements. 

This release contains the following new features:

* Using CycleCloud Marketplace Image 8.7.0
* Removing of AlmaLinux 8.7 and addition of AlmaLinux 8.10 for Scheduler, Login, and compute nodes
* Automatically collecting CycleCloud and Slurm logs for compute nodes
* Allowing the use of custom images not stored in a compute gallery
* Changing of default networking option to autocreate
* Updating Slurm version
* Driving VNet size by the Lustre cluster size
* Basing Role Assignments GUID on CycleCloud VM PrincipalID, allowing redeploying in the same Resource Group multiple times
* Creating a Resource Group is now the default setting
* Removing the need of a SAS key when accessing the storage account used for storing CycleCloud project files from nodes
* Persisting Sched disk

## Known issues in this release

- Before this release, role assignments must first be cleaned up when deploying on an existing environment.
- When removing the CycleCloud VM, orphan role assignments remain at the subscription level. These role assignees can be listed with `unknown` as the role assignee and need to be explicitly removed.
- **Azure US Gov Only**: Marketplace deployment validation failed due to an incorrect API version. To mitigate this issue, refer [How to deploy a CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm environment using the CLI](../../how-to/ccws/deploy-with-cli.md).

