---
title: CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm - Release Notes 2025.07.08
description: These release notes for Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2025.07.08 summarize new features and bug fixes included in the release. 
author: abatallas
ms.date: 09/29/2025
ms.author: padmalathas
---

# CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2025.07.08

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2025.07.08 was released as General Audience. This article provides you with information about:

* Recent releases
* Previews underway with known limitations (if applicable)
* Known issues
* Deprecated functionality (if applicable)

The following release notes identify the new features and the open issues for the 2025.07.08 release of Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

The release notes are continuously updated. Open known issues that require a workaround are added when they're discovered. Carefully review the information in the release notes before deploying Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

This release corresponds to the software version:

- **CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2025.07.08** 

## What's new in CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2025.07.08?

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm is updated regularly. Stay up to date with the latest announcements. 

This release contains the following new features:

* Use of CycleCloud Marketplace Image 8.7.2
* Metadata for availability zones
* Updated default availability zones for Azure Managed Lustre
* Updated mount options for Azure Managed Lustre
* Secure access of azure.repo.almalinux.org in cloud-init script
* Guaranteed proper renaming of login node hosts
* Appropriate scoping for Bastion deployments

## Known issues in this release

- **Azure US Gov Only**: Marketplace deployment validation fails due to an incorrect API version. To mitigate this issue, refer: [How to deploy a CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm environment using the CLI](../../how-to/ccws/deploy-with-cli.md).