---
title: CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm - Release Notes 2025.04.24
description: Read product release notes for Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2025.04.24. See a list of new features and known issues.
author: xpillons
ms.date: 04/08/2025
ms.author: padmalathas
---

# CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2025.04.24

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2025.04.24 was released as General Audience. This article provides you with information about:

* Recent releases
* Previews underway with known limitations (if applicable)
* Known issues
* Deprecated functionality (if applicable)

The following release notes identify the new features and the open issues for the 2025.04.24 release of Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

The release notes are continuously updated. Open known issues that require a workaround are added when they're discovered. Carefully review the information in the release notes before deploying Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

This release corresponds to the software version:

- **CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2025.04.24** 

## What's new in CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2025.04.24?

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm is updated regularly. Stay up to date with the latest announcements. 

This release contains the following new features:

- Open OnDemand integration including:
    - Open OnDemand deployment and configuration
    - Mictosoft Entra ID application registration for authentication
    - Visual Studio Code integration
    - Slurm cluster autoregistration
- Availability Zones support for Storage and Compute Nodes
- Allow inbound SSH from `VirtualNetwork` to `VirtualNetwork`
- Set Standard_Das_v5 as default CycleCloud virtual machine and disable selection of NVMe-only virtual machine type
- Exclude ARM64 virtual machine type for CycleCloud virtual machine size selection
- Use builtin Slurm template for creating a ccw cluster
- Exclude Gen1 virtual machine sizes from CycleCloud virtual machine selection menu
- Use private endpoint to connect to CycleCloud storage account in place of service endpoints
- change ENROOT_RUNTIME_PATH to be preserved upon reboot
- Create NAT Gateway by default
- Fix bug that prevents the showing of existing subnet CIDR
- Allow existing Microsoft Entra ID application registration for Open OnDemand deployments
- Disallow Standard_Dalsv6 series and Standard_Dasv6 virtual machine types for CycleCloud, scheduler, and Open OnDemand
- Disallow Standard_Dsv6 virtual machine series for the scheduler and Open OnDemand virtual machines
- Only show ANF delegation warnings if the chosen subnet doesn't have Microsoft.NetApp/volumes delegation
- deny public Blob access by default on the CycleCloud storage account

## Known issues in this release

- **Azure US Gov Only**: Marketplace deployment validation fails due to an incorrect API version. To mitigate this issue, refer: [How to deploy a CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm environment using the CLI](../../how-to/ccws/deploy-with-cli.md).
