---
title: CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm - Release Notes 2025.02.06
description: Read product release notes for Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2025.02.06. See a list of new features and known issues.
author: xpillons
ms.date: 03/05/2025
ms.author: padmalathas
---

# CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2025.02.06

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm 2025.02.06 was released as General Audience. This article provides you with information about:

* Recent releases
* Previews underway with known limitations (if applicable)
* Known issues
* Deprecated functionality (if applicable)

The following release notes identify the new features and the open issues for the 2025.02.06 release of Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

The release notes are continuously updated. Open known issues that require a workaround are added when they're discovered. Carefully review the information in the release notes before deploying Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm.

This release corresponds to the software version:

- **CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2025.02.06** 

## What's new in CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm version 2025.02.06?

Azure CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm is updated regularly. Stay up to date with the latest announcements. 

This release contains the following new features:

* Using CycleCloud Marketplace Image 8.7.1
* Using builtin Slurm template version 3.0.11 for creating CCWS cluster
* Setting Standard_D4as_v5 as default CycleCloud Virtual Machine Size
* Allowing inbound SSH from Virtual Network to Virtual Network
* Ensuring persistence of NVMe mounts on execute nodes
* Excluding Gen1 VMs from CycleCloud VM SKU selection menu
* Using private endpoint to connect to CycleCloud storage account in place of service endpoints
* Collecting Slurm logs when the user chooses a non-HPC image
* Excluding Arm64 VM size from the CycleCloud VM size selection menu
* Updating ANF pool API version to 2024-01-01 to allow for 1-TiB capacities
* Updating Lustre capacity selection to use slider with proper min, max, and step size by SKU
* Adding nconnect to ANF mount options
* Allowing CycleCloud VM Name to be set
* Providing option to auto accept VM image terms

## Known issues in this release

- **Azure US Gov Only**: Marketplace deployment validation fails due to an incorrect API version. To mitigate this issue, refer: [How to deploy a CycleCloud Workspace for Slurm environment using the CLI](../../how-to/ccws/deploy-with-cli.md).
