---
title: Translator Text API Transliterate Method
titlesuffix: Azure Cognitive Services
description: Use the Translator Text API Transliterate method.
services: cognitive-services
author: Jann-Skotdal
manager: cgronlun

ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.component: translator-text
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/29/2018
ms.author: v-jansko
---

# Translator Text API 3.0: Transliterate

Converts text in one language from one script to another script.

## Request URL

Send a `POST` request to:

```HTTP
https://api.cognitive.microsofttranslator.com/transliterate?api-version=3.0
```

## Request parameters

Request parameters passed on the query string are:

<table width="100%">
  <th width="20%">Query parameter</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
    <td>api-version</td>
    <td>*Required parameter*.<br/>Version of the API requested by the client. Value must be `3.0`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>language</td>
    <td>*Required parameter*.<br/>Specifies the language of the text to convert from one script to another. Possible languages are listed in the `transliteration` scope obtained by querying the service for its [supported languages](.\v3-0-languages.md).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>fromScript</td>
    <td>*Required parameter*.<br/>Specifies the script used by the input text. Look up [supported languages](.\v3-0-languages.md) using the `transliteration` scope, to find input scripts available for the selected language.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>toScript</td>
    <td>*Required parameter*.<br/>Specifies the output script. Look up [supported languages](.\v3-0-languages.md) using the `transliteration` scope, to find output scripts available for the selected combination of input language and input script.</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

Request headers include:

<table width="100%">
  <th width="20%">Headers</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
    <td>_One authorization_<br/>_header_</td>
    <td>*Required request header*.<br/>See [available options for authentication](./v3-0-reference.md#authentication).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Content-Type</td>
    <td>*Required request header*.<br/>Specifies the content type of the payload. Possible values are: `application/json`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Content-Length</td>
    <td>*Required request header*.<br/>The length of the request body.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>X-ClientTraceId</td>
    <td>*Optional*.<br/>A client-generated GUID to uniquely identify the request. Note that you can omit this header if you include the trace ID in the query string using a query parameter named `ClientTraceId`.</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

## Request body

The body of the request is a JSON array. Each array element is a JSON object with a string property named `Text`, which represents the string to convert.

```json
[
    {"Text":"こんにちは"},
    {"Text":"さようなら"}
]
```

The following limitations apply:

* The array can have at most 10 elements.
* The text value of an array element cannot exceed 1,000 characters including spaces.
* The entire text included in the request cannot exceed 5,000 characters including spaces.

## Response body

A successful response is a JSON array with one result for each element in the input array. A result object includes the following properties:

  * `text`: A string which is the result of converting the input string to the output script.
  
  * `script`: A string specifying the script used in the output.

An example JSON response is:

```json
[
    {"text":"konnnichiha","script":"Latn"},
    {"text":"sayounara","script":"Latn"}
]
```

## Response headers

<table width="100%">
  <th width="20%">Headers</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
    <td>X-RequestId</td>
    <td>Value generated by the service to identify the request. It is used for troubleshooting purposes.</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

## Response status codes

The following are the possible HTTP status codes that a request returns. 

<table width="100%">
  <th width="20%">Status Code</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>Success.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>One of the query parameters is missing or not valid. Correct request parameters before retrying.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>401</td>
    <td>The request could not be authenticated. Check that credentials are specified and valid.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>403</td>
    <td>The request is not authorized. Check the details error message. This often indicates that all free translations provided with a trial subscription have been used up.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>429</td>
    <td>The caller is sending too many requests.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>An unexpected error occurred. If the error persists, report it with: date and time of the failure, request identifier from response header `X-RequestId`, and client identifier from request header `X-ClientTraceId`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>503</td>
    <td>Server temporarily unavailable. Retry the request. If the error persists, report it with: date and time of the failure, request identifier from response header `X-RequestId`, and client identifier from request header `X-ClientTraceId`.</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

## Examples

The following example shows how to convert two Japanese strings into Romanized Japanese.

# [curl](#tab/curl)

The JSON payload for the request in this example:

```
[{"text":"こんにちは","script":"jpan"},{"text":"さようなら","script":"jpan"}]
```

If you are using cURL in a command-line window that does not support Unicode characters, take the following JSON payload and save it into a file named `request.txt`. Be sure to save the file with `UTF-8` encoding.

```
curl -X POST "https://api.cognitive.microsofttranslator.com/transliterate?api-version=3.0&language=ja&fromScript=Jpan&toScript=Latn" -H "X-ClientTraceId: 875030C7-5380-40B8-8A03-63DACCF69C11" -H "Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key: <client-secret>" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @request.txt
```

---
