---
title: Translator Text API Detect Method
titlesuffix: Azure Cognitive Services
description: Use the Translator Text API Detect method.
services: cognitive-services
author: Jann-Skotdal
manager: cgronlun

ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.component: translator-text
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/29/2018
ms.author: v-jansko
---

# Translator Text API 3.0: Detect

Identifies the language of a piece of text.

## Request URL

Send a `POST` request to:

```HTTP
https://api.cognitive.microsofttranslator.com/detect?api-version=3.0
```

## Request parameters

Request parameters passed on the query string are:

<table width="100%">
  <th width="20%">Query parameter</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
    <td>api-version</td>
    <td>*Required parameter*.<br/>Version of the API requested by the client. Value must be `3.0`.</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

Request headers include:

<table width="100%">
  <th width="20%">Headers</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
    <td>_One authorization_<br/>_header_</td>
    <td>*Required request header*.<br/>See [available options for authentication](./v3-0-reference.md#authentication).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Content-Type</td>
    <td>*Required request header*.<br/>Specifies the content type of the payload. Possible values are: `application/json`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Content-Length</td>
    <td>*Required request header*.<br/>The length of the request body.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>X-ClientTraceId</td>
    <td>*Optional*.<br/>A client-generated GUID to uniquely identify the request. Note that you can omit this header if you include the trace ID in the query string using a query parameter named `ClientTraceId`.</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

## Request body

The body of the request is a JSON array. Each array element is a JSON object with a string property named `Text`. Language detection is applied to the value of the `Text` property. A sample request body looks like that:

```json
[
    { "Text": "Ich würde wirklich gern Ihr Auto um den Block fahren ein paar Mal." }
]
```

The following limitations apply:

* The array can have at most 100 elements.
* The text value of an array element cannot exceed 10,000 characters including spaces.
* The entire text included in the request cannot exceed 50,000 characters including spaces.

## Response body

A successful response is a JSON array with one result for each string in the input array. A result object includes the following properties:

  * `language`: Code of the detected language.

  * `score`: A float value indicating the confidence in the result. The score is between zero and one and a low score indicates a low confidence.

  * `isTranslationSupported`: A boolean value which is true if the detected language is one of the languages supported for text translation.

  * `isTransliterationSupported`: A boolean value which is true if the detected language is one of the languages supported for transliteration.
  
  * `alternatives`: An array of other possible languages. Each element of the array is another object with the same properties listed above: `language`, `score`, `isTranslationSupported` and `isTransliterationSupported`.

An example JSON response is:

```json
[
  {
    "language": "de",
    "score": 0.92,
    "isTranslationSupported": true,
    "isTransliterationSupported": false,
    "alternatives": [
      {
        "language": "pt",
        "score": 0.23,
        "isTranslationSupported": true,
        "isTransliterationSupported": false
      },
      {
        "language": "sk",
        "score": 0.23,
        "isTranslationSupported": true,
        "isTransliterationSupported": false
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

## Response headers

<table width="100%">
  <th width="20%">Headers</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
    <td>X-RequestId</td>
    <td>Value generated by the service to identify the request. It is used for troubleshooting purposes.</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

## Response status codes

The following are the possible HTTP status codes that a request returns. 

<table width="100%">
  <th width="20%">Status Code</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>Success.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>One of the query parameters is missing or not valid. Correct request parameters before retrying.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>401</td>
    <td>The request could not be authenticated. Check that credentials are specified and valid.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>403</td>
    <td>The request is not authorized. Check the details error message. This often indicates that all free translations provided with a trial subscription have been used up.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>429</td>
    <td>The caller is sending too many requests.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>An unexpected error occurred. If the error persists, report it with: date and time of the failure, request identifier from response header `X-RequestId`, and client identifier from request header `X-ClientTraceId`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>503</td>
    <td>Server temporarily unavailable. Retry the request. If the error persists, report it with: date and time of the failure, request identifier from response header `X-RequestId`, and client identifier from request header `X-ClientTraceId`.</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

## Examples

The following example shows how to retrieve languages supported for text translation.

# [curl](#tab/curl)

```
curl -X POST "https://api.cognitive.microsofttranslator.com/detect?api-version=3.0" -H "Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key: <client-secret>" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "[{'Text':'What language is this text written in?'}]"
```

---
