---
# Mandatory fields. See more on aka.ms/skyeye/meta.
title: Azure IoT Edge C# tutorial | Microsoft Docs 
description: This tutorial shows you how to create an IoT Edge module with C# code and deploy it to an edge device
services: iot-edge
author: kgremban
manager: timlt

ms.author: kgremban
ms.date: 06/27/2018
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.service: iot-edge
ms.custom: mvc

---

# Tutorial: Develop a C# IoT Edge module and deploy to your simulated device

You can use IoT Edge modules to deploy code that implements your business logic directly to your IoT Edge devices. This tutorial walks you through creating and deploying an IoT Edge module that filters sensor data. You'll use the simulated IoT Edge device that you created in the Deploy Azure IoT Edge on a simulated device in [Windows][lnk-tutorial1-win] or [Linux][lnk-tutorial1-lin] tutorials. In this tutorial, you learn how to:    

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Use Visual Studio Code to create an IoT Edge module based on .NET core 2.0
> * Use Visual Studio Code and Docker to create a docker image and publish it to your registry 
> * Deploy the module to your IoT Edge device
> * View generated data


The IoT Edge module that you create in this tutorial filters the temperature data generated by your device. It only sends messages upstream if the temperature is above a specified threshold. This type of analysis at the edge is useful for reducing the amount of data communicated to and stored in the cloud. 

If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free) before you begin.


## Prerequisites

* The Azure IoT Edge device that you created in the quickstart for [Linux](quickstart-linux.md) or [Windows devices](quickstart.md).
* The primary key connection string for the IoT Edge device.  
* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). 
* [C# for Visual Studio Code (powered by OmniSharp) extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.csharp).
* [Azure IoT Edge extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vsciot-vscode.azure-iot-edge) for Visual Studio Code. 
* [.NET Core 2.1 SDK](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download).
* [Docker CE](https://docs.docker.com/install/) on your development machine. 


## Create a container registry
In this tutorial, you use the Azure IoT Edge extension for VS Code to build a module and create a **container image** from the files. Then you push this image to a **registry** that stores and manages your images. Finally, you deploy your image from your registry to run on your IoT Edge device.  

You can use any Docker-compatible registry for this tutorial. Two popular Docker registry services available in the cloud are [Azure Container Registry](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/) and [Docker Hub](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/repos/#viewing-repository-tags). This tutorial uses Azure Container Registry. 

1. In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), select **Create a resource** > **Containers** > **Azure Container Registry**.
2. Give your registry a name, choose a subscription, choose a resource group, and set the SKU to **Basic**. 
3. Select **Create**.
4. Once your container registry is created, navigate to it and select **Access keys**. 
5. Toggle **Admin user** to **Enable**.
6. Copy the values for **Login server**, **Username**, and **Password**. You'll use these values later in the tutorial when you publish the Docker image to your registry, and when you add the registry credentials to the Edge runtime. 

## Create an IoT Edge module project
The following steps show you how to create an IoT Edge module project based on .NET core 2.0 using Visual Studio Code and the Azure IoT Edge extension.
1. In Visual Studio Code, select **View** > **Integrated Terminal** to open the VS Code integrated terminal.
2. Select **View** > **Command Palette** to open the VS Code command palette. 
3. In the command palette, type and run the command **Azure: Sign in** and follow the instructions to sign in your Azure account. If you've already signed in, you can skip this step.
4. In the command palette, type and run the command **Azure IoT Edge: New IoT Edge solution**. In the command palette, provide the following information to create your solution: 
   1. Select the folder where you want to create the solution. 
   2. Provide a name for your solution or accept the default **EdgeSolution**.
   3. Choose **C# Module** as the module template. 
   4. Name your module **CSharpModule**. 
   5. Specify the Azure Container Registry that you created in the previous section as the image repository for your first module. Replace **localhost:5000** with the login server value that you copied. The final string looks like **\<registry name\>.azurecr.io/csharpmodule**.
 
4. The VS Code window loads your IoT Edge solution workspace. There is a **modules** folder, a **.vscode** folder, a deployment manifest template file and a **.env** file. Open **modules** > **CSharpModule** > **Program.cs**.

5. At the top of the **CSharpModule** namespace, add three `using` statements for types used later on:

    ```csharp
    using System.Collections.Generic;     // for KeyValuePair<>
    using Microsoft.Azure.Devices.Shared; // for TwinCollection
    using Newtonsoft.Json;                // for JsonConvert
    ```

6. Add the `temperatureThreshold` variable to the **Program** class. This variable sets the value that the measured temperature must exceed in order for the data to be sent to IoT Hub. 

    ```csharp
    static int temperatureThreshold { get; set; } = 25;
    ```

7. Add the `MessageBody`, `Machine`, and `Ambient` classes to the **Program** class. These classes define the expected schema for the body of incoming messages.

    ```csharp
    class MessageBody
    {
        public Machine machine {get;set;}
        public Ambient ambient {get; set;}
        public string timeCreated {get; set;}
    }
    class Machine
    {
       public double temperature {get; set;}
       public double pressure {get; set;}         
    }
    class Ambient
    {
       public double temperature {get; set;}
       public int humidity {get; set;}         
    }
    ```

8. In the **Init** method, the code creates and configures a **ModuleClient** object. This object allows the module to  connect to the local Azure IoT Edge runtime to send and receive messages. The connection string used in the **Init** method is supplied to the module by IoT Edge runtime. After creating the **ModuleClient**, the code reads the TemperatureThreshold from the Module Twin's desired properties and registers a callback for receiving messages from the IoT Edge hub via the **input1** endpoint. Replace the `SetInputMessageHandlerAsync` method with a new one, and add a `SetDesiredPropertyUpdateCallbackAsync` method for desired properties updates. To make this change, replace the last line of the **Init** method with the following code:

    ```csharp
    // Register callback to be called when a message is received by the module
    // await ioTHubModuleClient.SetImputMessageHandlerAsync("input1", PipeMessage, iotHubModuleClient);

    // Read TemperatureThreshold from Module Twin Desired Properties
    var moduleTwin = await ioTHubModuleClient.GetTwinAsync();
    var moduleTwinCollection = moduleTwin.Properties.Desired;
    try {
        temperatureThreshold = moduleTwinCollection["TemperatureThreshold"];
    } catch(ArgumentOutOfRangeException e) {
        Console.WriteLine($"Property TemperatureThreshold not exist: {e.Message}"); 
    }

    // Attach callback for Twin desired properties updates
    await ioTHubModuleClient.SetDesiredPropertyUpdateCallbackAsync(OnDesiredPropertiesUpdate, null);

    // Register callback to be called when a message is received by the module
    await ioTHubModuleClient.SetInputMessageHandlerAsync("input1", FilterMessages, ioTHubModuleClient);
    ```

9. Add the `OnDesiredPropertiesUpdate` method to the **Program** class. This method receives updates on the desired properties from the module twin, and updates the **temperatureThreshold** variable to match. All modules have their own module twin, which lets you configure the code running inside a module directly from the cloud.

    ```csharp
    static Task OnDesiredPropertiesUpdate(TwinCollection desiredProperties, object userContext)
    {
        try
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Desired property change:");
            Console.WriteLine(JsonConvert.SerializeObject(desiredProperties));

            if (desiredProperties["TemperatureThreshold"]!=null)
                temperatureThreshold = desiredProperties["TemperatureThreshold"];

        }
        catch (AggregateException ex)
        {
            foreach (Exception exception in ex.InnerExceptions)
            {
                Console.WriteLine();
                Console.WriteLine("Error when receiving desired property: {0}", exception);
            }
        }
        catch (Exception ex)
        {
            Console.WriteLine();
            Console.WriteLine("Error when receiving desired property: {0}", ex.Message);
        }
        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
    ```

10. Replace the `PipeMessage` method with the `FilterMessages` method. This method is called whenever the module receives a message from the IoT Edge hub. It filters out messages that report temperatures below the temperature threshold set via the module twin. It also adds the **MessageType** property to the message with the value set to **Alert**. 

    ```csharp
    static async Task<MessageResponse> FilterMessages(Message message, object userContext)
    {
        var counterValue = Interlocked.Increment(ref counter);
        try
        {
            ModuleClient moduleClient = (ModuleClient)userContext;
            var messageBytes = message.GetBytes();
            var messageString = Encoding.UTF8.GetString(messageBytes);
            Console.WriteLine($"Received message {counterValue}: [{messageString}]");

            // Get message body
            var messageBody = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<MessageBody>(messageString);

            if (messageBody != null && messageBody.machine.temperature > temperatureThreshold)
            {
                Console.WriteLine($"Machine temperature {messageBody.machine.temperature} " +
                    $"exceeds threshold {temperatureThreshold}");
                var filteredMessage = new Message(messageBytes);
                foreach (KeyValuePair<string, string> prop in message.Properties)
                {
                    filteredMessage.Properties.Add(prop.Key, prop.Value);
                }

                filteredMessage.Properties.Add("MessageType", "Alert");
                await moduleClient.SendEventAsync("output1", filteredMessage);
            }

            // Indicate that the message treatment is completed
            return MessageResponse.Completed;
        }
        catch (AggregateException ex)
        {
            foreach (Exception exception in ex.InnerExceptions)
            {
                Console.WriteLine();
                Console.WriteLine("Error in sample: {0}", exception);
            }
            // Indicate that the message treatment is not completed
            var moduleClient = (ModuleClient)userContext;
            return MessageResponse.Abandoned;
        }
        catch (Exception ex)
        {
            Console.WriteLine();
            Console.WriteLine("Error in sample: {0}", ex.Message);
            // Indicate that the message treatment is not completed
            ModuleClient moduleClient = (ModuleClient)userContext;
            return MessageResponse.Abandoned;
        }
    }
    ```

11. Save this file.

## Build your IoT Edge solution

In the previous section you created an IoT Edge solution and added code to the CSharpModule that will filter out messages where the reported machine temperature is below the acceptable threshold. Now you need to build the solution as a container image and push it to your container registry. 

1. Sign in to Docker by entering the following command in the Visual Studio Code integrated terminal, so you can push your module image to the ACR: 
     
   ```csh/sh
   docker login -u <ACR username> -p <ACR password> <ACR login server>
   ```
   Use the username, password, and login server that you copied from your Azure Container Registry in the first section. Or retrieve them again from the **Access keys** section of your registry in the Azure portal.

2. In the VS Code explorer, open the **deployment.template.json** file in your IoT Edge solution workspace. This file tells the `$edgeAgent` to deploy two modules: **tempSensor** and **CSharpModule**. The `CSharpModule.image` value is set to a Linux amd64 version of the image. To learn more about deployment manifests, see [Understand how IoT Edge modules can be used, configured, and reused](module-composition.md).

3. In **deployment.template.json** file, there is a section **registryCredentials** which stores your Docker regitstry credentials. The actual username and password pairs are stored in the .env file which is git ignored.

4. Add the CSharpModule module twin to the deployment manifest. Insert the following JSON content at the bottom of the `moduleContent` section, after the `$edgeHub` module twin: 
    ```json
        "CSharpModule": {
            "properties.desired":{
                "TemperatureThreshold":25
            }
        }
    ```

4. Save this file.
5. In the VS Code explorer, right-click the **deployment.template.json** file and select **Build IoT Edge solution**. 

When you tell Visual Studio Code to build your solution, it first takes the information in the deployment template and generates a `deployment.json` file in a new **config** folder. Then it runs two commands in the integrated terminal: `docker build` and `docker push`. These two commands build your code, containerize the `CSharpModule.dll`, and the push it to the container registry that you specified when you initialized the solution. 

You can see the full container image address with tag in the VS Code integrated terminal. The image address is built from information in the `module.json` file, with the format **\<repository\>:\<version\>-\<platform\>**. For this tutorial, it should look like **registryname.azurecr.io/csharpmodule:0.0.1-amd64**.

## Deploy and run the solution

1. Configure the Azure IoT Toolkit extension with connection string for your IoT hub: 
    1. Open the VS Code explorer by selecting **View** > **Explorer**. 
    2. In the explorer, click **AZURE IOT HUB DEVICES** and then click **...**. Click **Select IoT Hub**. Follow the instructions to log in you Azure account and choose your IoT hub. 
       Note that you can also setup by clicking **Set IoT Hub Connection String**. Enter the connection string for the IoT hub that your IoT Edge device connects to in the pop-up window.

2. In Azure IoT Hub Devices explorer, right-click your IoT Edge device, then click **Create Deployment for IoT Edge device**. Select the **deployment.json** file in the **config** folder and then click **Select Edge Deployment Manifest**.

3. Click the refresh button. You should see the new **CSharpModule** running along with the **TempSensor** module and the **$edgeAgent** and **$edgeHub**. 

## View generated data

1. To monitor data arriving at the IoT hub, click **...**, and select **Start Monitoring D2C Messages**.
2. To monitor the D2C message for a specific device, right-click the device in the list, and select **Start Monitoring D2C Messages**.
3. To stop monitoring data, run the command **Azure IoT Hub: Stop monitoring D2C message** in command palette. 
4. To view or update module twin, right-click the module in the list, and select **Edit module twin**. To update the module twin, save the twin JSON file and right-click the editor area and select **Update Module Twin**.
5. To view Docker logs, you can install [Docker](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PeterJausovec.vscode-docker) for VS Code and find your running modules locally in Docker explorer. In the context menu, click **Show Logs** to view in integrated terminal.
 
## Clean up resources 

<!--[!INCLUDE [iot-edge-quickstarts-clean-up-resources](../../includes/iot-edge-quickstarts-clean-up-resources.md)] -->

If you will be continuing to the next recommended article, you can keep the resources and configurations you've already created and reuse them.

Otherwise, you can delete the local configurations and the Azure resources created in this article to avoid charges. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Deleting Azure resources and resource group is irreversible. Once deleted, the resource group and all the resources contained in it are permanently deleted. Make sure that you do not accidentally delete the wrong resource group or resources. If you created the IoT Hub inside an existing resource group that contains resources you want to keep, only delete the IoT Hub resource itself instead of deleting the resource group.
>

To delete only the IoT Hub execute the following command using your hub name and resource group name:

```azurecli-interactive
az iot hub delete --name MyIoTHub --resource-group TestResources
```


To delete the entire resource group by name:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and click **Resource groups**.

2. In the **Filter by name...** textbox, type the name of the resource group containing your IoT Hub. 

3. To the right of your resource group in the result list, click **...** then **Delete resource group**.

4. You will be asked to confirm the deletion of the resource group. Type the name of your resource group again to confirm, and then click **Delete**. After a few moments, the resource group and all of its contained resources are deleted.



## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created an IoT Edge module that contains code to filter raw data generated by your IoT Edge device. When you're ready to build your own modules, you can learn more about how to [Develop a C# module with Azure IoT Edge for Visual Studio Code](how-to-develop-csharp-module.md). You can continue on to the next tutorials to learn about other ways that Azure IoT Edge can help you turn data into business insights at the edge.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Store data at the edge with SQL Server databases](tutorial-store-data-sql-server.md)

<!-- Links -->
[lnk-tutorial1-win]: quickstart.md
[lnk-tutorial1-lin]: quickstart-linux.md

<!-- Images -->
[1]: ./media/tutorial-csharp-module/programcs.png
[2]: ./media/tutorial-csharp-module/build-module.png
[3]: ./media/tutorial-csharp-module/docker-os.png
