---
# Mandatory fields. See more on aka.ms/skyeye/meta.
title: Azure IoT Edge C tutorial | Microsoft Docs 
description: This tutorial shows you how to create an IoT Edge module with C code and deploy it to an edge device
services: iot-edge
author: shizn
manager: timlt

ms.author: xshi
ms.date: 07/30/2018
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.service: iot-edge
ms.custom: mvc

---

# Tutorial: Develop a C IoT Edge module and deploy to your simulated device

You can use IoT Edge modules to deploy code that implements your business logic directly to your IoT Edge devices. This tutorial walks you through creating and deploying an IoT Edge module that filters sensor data. In this tutorial, you learn how to:    

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Use Visual Studio Code to create an IoT Edge module in C
> * Use Visual Studio Code and Docker to create a docker image and publish it to a container registry 
> * Deploy the module to your IoT Edge device
> * View generated data


The IoT Edge module that you create in this tutorial filters the temperature data generated by your device. It only sends messages upstream if the temperature is above a specified threshold. This type of analysis at the edge is useful for reducing the amount of data communicated to and stored in the cloud. 

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]


## Prerequisites

An Azure IoT Edge device:

* You can use your development machine or a virtual machine as an Edge device by following the steps in the quickstart for [Linux](quickstart-linux.md) or [Windows devices](quickstart.md).

Cloud resources:

* A standard-tier [IoT Hub](../iot-hub/iot-hub-create-through-portal.md) in Azure. 

Development resources:

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). 
* [C/C++ extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.cpptools) for Visual Studio Code.
* [Azure IoT Edge extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vsciot-vscode.azure-iot-edge) for Visual Studio Code.
* [Docker CE](https://docs.docker.com/install/). 

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it.md](../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

## Create a container registry
In this tutorial, you use the Azure IoT Edge extension for VS Code to build a module and create a **container image** from the files. Then you push this image to a **registry** that stores and manages your images. Finally, you deploy your image from your registry to run on your IoT Edge device.  

You can use any Docker-compatible registry for this tutorial. Two popular Docker registry services available in the cloud are [Azure Container Registry](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/) and [Docker Hub](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/repos/#viewing-repository-tags). This tutorial uses Azure Container Registry. 

The following Azure CLI command creates a registry in a resource group called **IoTEdgeResources**. Replace **{acr_name}** with a unique name for your registry. 

   ```azurecli-interactive
   az acr create --resource-group IoTEdgeResources --name {acr_name} --sku Basic --admin-enabled true
   ```

Retrieve the credentials for your registry. 

   ```azurecli-interactive
   az acr credential show --name {acr_name}
   ```

Copy the values for **Username** and one of the passwords. You'll use these values later in the tutorial when you publish the Docker image to your registry, and when you add the registry credentials to the Edge runtime. 

## Create an IoT Edge module project
The following steps show you how to create an IoT Edge module project based on .NET core 2.0 using Visual Studio Code and the Azure IoT Edge extension.
1. In Visual Studio Code, select **View** > **Integrated Terminal** to open the VS Code integrated terminal.
2. Select **View** > **Command Palette** to open the VS Code command palette. 
3. In the command palette, type and run the command **Azure: Sign in** and follow the instructions to sign in your Azure account. If you've already signed in, you can skip this step.
4. In the command palette, type and run the command **Azure IoT Edge: New IoT Edge solution**. In the command palette, provide the following information to create your solution: 
   1. Select the folder where you want to create the solution. 
   2. Provide a name for your solution or accept the default **EdgeSolution**.
   3. Choose **C Module** as the module template. 
   4. Name your module **CModule**. 
   5. Specify the Azure Container Registry that you created in the previous section as the image repository for your first module. Replace **localhost:5000** with the login server value that you copied. The final string looks like **\<registry name\>.azurecr.io/cmodule**.
 
4. The VS Code window loads your IoT Edge solution workspace. There is a **modules** folder, a **.vscode** folder, a deployment manifest template file and a **.env** file. The default module code is implemented as a pipe module. 

5. To filter messages in JSON format, a JSON library for C need to be imported. You can choose any JSON library or write your own to parse JSON in your C module. Below steps are using [Parson](https://github.com/kgabis/parson) as a example.
   1. Download **parson.c** and **parson.h** from [Parson Github repository](https://github.com/kgabis/parson). And copy paste these two files into the **CModule** folder.
   2. Open **modules** > **CModule** > **CMakeLists.txt**. Add below lines to import parson library as my_parson.

      ```
      add_library(my_parson
          parson.c
          parson.h
      )
      ```

   3. In `target_link_libraries` in **CMakeLists.txt**, add `my_parson` into it.
   4. Open **modules** > **CModule** > **main.c**. At the buttom of include section, add below code to include `parson.h` for JSON support:

      ```c
      #include "parson.h"
      ```

6. Add a global variable `temperatureThreshold` variable after the include section. This variable sets the value that the measured temperature must exceed in order for the data to be sent to IoT Hub. 

    ```c
    static double temperatureThreshold = 25;
    ```

7. Replace the entire `CreateMessageInstance` function with below code. This function allocates a context for the callback. 

    ```c
    static MESSAGE_INSTANCE* CreateMessageInstance(IOTHUB_MESSAGE_HANDLE message)
    {
        MESSAGE_INSTANCE* messageInstance = (MESSAGE_INSTANCE*)malloc(sizeof(MESSAGE_INSTANCE));
        if (NULL == messageInstance)
        {
            printf("Failed allocating 'MESSAGE_INSTANCE' for pipelined message\r\n");
        }
        else
        {
            memset(messageInstance, 0, sizeof(*messageInstance));

            if ((messageInstance->messageHandle = IoTHubMessage_Clone(message)) == NULL)
            {
                free(messageInstance);
                messageInstance = NULL;
            }
            else
            {
                messageInstance->messageTrackingId = messagesReceivedByInput1Queue;
                MAP_HANDLE propMap = IoTHubMessage_Properties(messageInstance->messageHandle);
                if (Map_AddOrUpdate(propMap, "MessageType", "Alert") != MAP_OK)
                {
                    printf("ERROR: Map_AddOrUpdate Failed!\r\n");
                }
            }
        }

        return messageInstance;
    }
    ```

8. Replace the entire `InputQueue1Callback` function with below code. This function implements the actual messaging filter. 

    ```c
    static IOTHUBMESSAGE_DISPOSITION_RESULT InputQueue1Callback(IOTHUB_MESSAGE_HANDLE message, void* userContextCallback)
    {
        IOTHUBMESSAGE_DISPOSITION_RESULT result;
        IOTHUB_CLIENT_RESULT clientResult;
        IOTHUB_MODULE_CLIENT_LL_HANDLE iotHubModuleClientHandle = (IOTHUB_MODULE_CLIENT_LL_HANDLE)userContextCallback;

        unsigned const char* messageBody;
        size_t contentSize;

        if (IoTHubMessage_GetByteArray(message, &messageBody, &contentSize) != IOTHUB_MESSAGE_OK)
        {
            messageBody = "<null>";
        }

        printf("Received Message [%zu]\r\n Data: [%s]\r\n", 
                messagesReceivedByInput1Queue, messageBody);

        JSON_Value *root_value = json_parse_string(messageBody);
        JSON_Object *root_object = json_value_get_object(root_value);
        double temperature;
        if (json_object_dotget_value(root_object, "machine.temperature") != NULL && (temperature = json_object_dotget_number(root_object, "machine.temperature")) > temperatureThreshold)
        {
            printf("Machine temperature %f exceeds threshold %f\r\n", temperature, temperatureThreshold);
            // This message should be sent to next stop in the pipeline, namely "output1".  What happens at "outpu1" is determined
            // by the configuration of the Edge routing table setup.
            MESSAGE_INSTANCE *messageInstance = CreateMessageInstance(message);
            if (NULL == messageInstance)
            {
                result = IOTHUBMESSAGE_ABANDONED;
            }
            else
            {
                printf("Sending message (%zu) to the next stage in pipeline\n", messagesReceivedByInput1Queue);

                clientResult = IoTHubModuleClient_LL_SendEventToOutputAsync(iotHubModuleClientHandle, messageInstance->messageHandle, "output1", SendConfirmationCallback, (void *)messageInstance);
                if (clientResult != IOTHUB_CLIENT_OK)
                {
                    IoTHubMessage_Destroy(messageInstance->messageHandle);
                    free(messageInstance);
                    printf("IoTHubModuleClient_LL_SendEventToOutputAsync failed on sending msg#=%zu, err=%d\n", messagesReceivedByInput1Queue, clientResult);
                    result = IOTHUBMESSAGE_ABANDONED;
                }
                else
                {
                    result = IOTHUBMESSAGE_ACCEPTED;
                }
            }
        }
        else
        {
            printf("Not sending message (%zu) to the next stage in pipeline.\r\n", messagesReceivedByInput1Queue);
            result = IOTHUBMESSAGE_ACCEPTED;
        }

        messagesReceivedByInput1Queue++;
        return result;
    }
    ```

9. Add a `moduleTwinCallback` function. This method receives updates on the desired properties from the module twin, and updates the **temperatureThreshold** variable to match. All modules have their own module twin, which lets you configure the code running inside a module directly from the cloud.

    ```c
    static void moduleTwinCallback(DEVICE_TWIN_UPDATE_STATE update_state, const unsigned char* payLoad, size_t size, void* userContextCallback)
    {
        printf("\r\nTwin callback called with (state=%s, size=%zu):\r\n%s\r\n", 
            ENUM_TO_STRING(DEVICE_TWIN_UPDATE_STATE, update_state), size, payLoad);
        JSON_Value *root_value = json_parse_string(payLoad);
        JSON_Object *root_object = json_value_get_object(root_value);
        if (json_object_dotget_value(root_object, "desired.TemperatureThreshold") != NULL) {
            temperatureThreshold = json_object_dotget_number(root_object, "desired.TemperatureThreshold");
        }
        if (json_object_get_value(root_object, "TemperatureThreshold") != NULL) {
            temperatureThreshold = json_object_get_number(root_object, "TemperatureThreshold");
        }
    }
    ```

10. Add a new callback for `moduleTwinCallback` in function `SetupCallbacksForModule`. Replace the entire function `SetupCallbacksForModule` with below code.

    ```c
    static int SetupCallbacksForModule(IOTHUB_MODULE_CLIENT_LL_HANDLE iotHubModuleClientHandle)
    {
        int ret;

        if (IoTHubModuleClient_LL_SetInputMessageCallback(iotHubModuleClientHandle, "input1", InputQueue1Callback, (void*)iotHubModuleClientHandle) != IOTHUB_CLIENT_OK)
        {
            printf("ERROR: IoTHubModuleClient_LL_SetInputMessageCallback(\"input1\")..........FAILED!\r\n");
            ret = __FAILURE__;
        }
        else if (IoTHubModuleClient_LL_SetModuleTwinCallback(iotHubModuleClientHandle, moduleTwinCallback, (void*)iotHubModuleClientHandle) != IOTHUB_CLIENT_OK)
        {
            printf("ERROR: IoTHubModuleClient_LL_SetModuleTwinCallback(default)..........FAILED!\r\n");
            ret = __FAILURE__;
        }
        else
        {
            ret = 0;
        }

        return ret;
    }
    ```

11. Save this file.

## Build your IoT Edge solution

In the previous section you created an IoT Edge solution and added code to the CModule that will filter out messages where the reported machine temperature is below the acceptable threshold. Now you need to build the solution as a container image and push it to your container registry. 

1. Sign in to Docker by entering the following command in the Visual Studio Code integrated terminal, so you can push your module image to the ACR: 
     
   ```csh/sh
   docker login -u <ACR username> -p <ACR password> <ACR login server>
   ```
   Use the username, password, and login server that you copied from your Azure Container Registry in the first section. Or retrieve them again from the **Access keys** section of your registry in the Azure portal.

2. In the VS Code explorer, open the **deployment.template.json** file in your IoT Edge solution workspace. This file tells the `$edgeAgent` to deploy two modules: **tempSensor** and **CModule**. The `CModule.image` value is set to a Linux amd64 version of the image. To learn more about deployment manifests, see [Understand how IoT Edge modules can be used, configured, and reused](module-composition.md).

3. In **deployment.template.json** file, there is a section **registryCredentials** which stores your Docker regitstry credentials. The actual username and password pairs are stored in the .env file which is git ignored.

4. Add the CModule module twin to the deployment manifest. Insert the following JSON content at the bottom of the `moduleContent` section, after the `$edgeHub` module twin: 
    ```json
        "CModule": {
            "properties.desired":{
                "TemperatureThreshold":25
            }
        }
    ```

4. Save this file.
5. In the VS Code explorer, right-click the **deployment.template.json** file and select **Build IoT Edge solution**. 

When you tell Visual Studio Code to build your solution, it first takes the information in the deployment template and generates a `deployment.json` file in a new **config** folder. Then it runs two commands in the integrated terminal: `docker build` and `docker push`. These two commands build your code, containerize the `CModule.dll`, and the push it to the container registry that you specified when you initialized the solution. 

You can see the full container image address with tag in the VS Code integrated terminal. The image address is built from information in the `module.json` file, with the format **\<repository\>:\<version\>-\<platform\>**. For this tutorial, it should look like **registryname.azurecr.io/cmodule:0.0.1-amd64**.

## Deploy and run the solution

1. Configure the Azure IoT Toolkit extension with connection string for your IoT hub: 
    1. Open the VS Code explorer by selecting **View** > **Explorer**. 
    2. In the explorer, click **AZURE IOT HUB DEVICES** and then click **...**. Click **Select IoT Hub**. Follow the instructions to log in you Azure account and choose your IoT hub. 
       Note that you can also setup by clicking **Set IoT Hub Connection String**. Enter the connection string for the IoT hub that your IoT Edge device connects to in the pop-up window.

2. In Azure IoT Hub Devices explorer, right-click your IoT Edge device, then click **Create Deployment for IoT Edge device**. Select the **deployment.json** file in the **config** folder and then click **Select Edge Deployment Manifest**.

3. Click the refresh button. You should see the new **CModule** running along with the **TempSensor** module and the **$edgeAgent** and **$edgeHub**. 

## View generated data

1. To monitor data arriving at the IoT hub, click **...**, and select **Start Monitoring D2C Messages**.
2. To monitor the D2C message for a specific device, right-click the device in the list, and select **Start Monitoring D2C Messages**.
3. To stop monitoring data, run the command **Azure IoT Hub: Stop monitoring D2C message** in command palette. 
4. To view or update module twin, right-click the module in the list, and select **Edit module twin**. To update the module twin, save the twin JSON file and right-click the editor area and select **Update Module Twin**.
5. To view Docker logs, you can install [Docker](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PeterJausovec.vscode-docker) for VS Code and find your running modules locally in Docker explorer. In the context menu, click **Show Logs** to view in integrated terminal.
 
## Clean up resources 

If you will be continuing to the next recommended article, you can keep the resources and configurations you've already created and reuse them.

Otherwise, you can delete the local configurations and the Azure resources created in this article to avoid charges. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Deleting Azure resource groups is irreversible. Once deleted, the resource group and all the resources contained in it are permanently deleted. Make sure that you do not accidentally delete the wrong resource group or resources. If you created the IoT Hub inside an existing resource group that contains resources you want to keep, only delete the IoT Hub resource itself instead of deleting the resource group.
>

To delete only the IoT Hub execute the following command using your hub name and resource group name:

```azurecli-interactive
az iot hub delete --name {hub_name} --resource-group IoTEdgeResources
```


To delete the entire resource group by name:

   ```azurecli-interactive
   az group delete --name IoTEdgeResources 
   ```



## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created an IoT Edge module that contains code to filter raw data generated by your IoT Edge device. When you're ready to build your own modules, you can learn more about how to [Develop a C module with Azure IoT Edge for Visual Studio Code](how-to-develop-c-module.md). You can continue on to the next tutorials to learn about other ways that Azure IoT Edge can help you turn data into business insights at the edge.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Store data at the edge with SQL Server databases](tutorial-store-data-sql-server.md)

<!-- Links -->
[lnk-tutorial1-win]: quickstart.md
[lnk-tutorial1-lin]: quickstart-linux.md
