---
# Mandatory fields. See more on aka.ms/skyeye/meta.
title: Azure IoT Edge Python tutorial | Microsoft Docs 
description: This tutorial shows you how to create an IoT Edge module with Python code and deploy it to an edge device.
services: iot-edge
author: shizn
manager: timlt

ms.author: xshi
ms.date: 06/26/2018
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.service: iot-edge
ms.custom: mvc

---

# Tutorial: Develop and deploy a Python IoT Edge module to your simulated device

You can use Azure IoT Edge modules to deploy code that implements your business logic directly to your IoT Edge devices. This tutorial walks you through creating and deploying an IoT Edge module that filters sensor data. You'll use the simulated IoT Edge device that you created in the Deploy Azure IoT Edge on a simulated device in [Windows][lnk-quickstart-win] or [Linux][lnk-quickstart-lin] quickstarts. In this tutorial, you learn how to:    

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Use Visual Studio Code to create an IoT Edge Python module.
> * Use Visual Studio Code and Docker to create a Docker image and publish it to your registry.
> * Deploy the module to your IoT Edge device.
> * View generated data.


The IoT Edge module that you create in this tutorial filters the temperature data that's generated by your device. It only sends messages upstream if the temperature is above a specified threshold. This type of analysis at the edge is useful for reducing the amount of data that's communicated to and stored in the cloud. 

If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free) before you begin.


## Prerequisites

* The Azure IoT Edge device that you created in the quickstart for [Linux](quickstart-linux.md).

   >[!Note]
   >Python modules for Azure IoT Edge don't support Windows or ARM devices. 

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). 
* [Azure IoT Edge extension for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vsciot-vscode.azure-iot-edge).
* [Python extension for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python). 
* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/) on the same computer that has Visual Studio Code. The Community Edition (CE) is sufficient for this tutorial. 
* [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
* [Pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/#installation) for installing Python packages (typically included with your Python installation).

## Create a container registry
In this tutorial, you use the Azure IoT Edge extension for VS Code to build a module and create a **container image** from the files. Then you push this image to a **registry** that stores and manages your images. Finally, you deploy your image from your registry to run on your IoT Edge device.  

You can use any Docker-compatible registry for this tutorial. Two popular Docker registry services that are available in the cloud are [Azure Container Registry](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/) and [Docker Hub](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/repos/#viewing-repository-tags). This tutorial uses Azure Container Registry. 

1. In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), select **Create a resource** > **Containers** > **Azure Container Registry**.
2. Give your registry a name, choose a subscription, choose a resource group, and set the SKU to **Basic**. 
3. Select **Create**.
4. After your container registry is created, browse to it, and select **Access keys**. 
5. Toggle **Admin user** to **Enable**.
6. Copy the values for **Login server**, **Username**, and **Password**. You use these values later in the tutorial. 

## Create an IoT Edge module project
The following steps create an IoT Edge Python module by using Visual Studio Code and the Azure IoT Edge extension.

### Create a new solution

Use the Python package **cookiecutter** to create a Python solution template that you can build on top of. 

1. In Visual Studio Code, select **View** > **Integrated Terminal** to open the VS Code integrated terminal.

2. In the integrated terminal, enter the following command to install (or update) **cookiecutter**, which you use to create the IoT Edge solution template in VS Code:

    ```cmd/sh
    pip install --upgrade --user cookiecutter
    ```

3. Select **View** > **Command Palette** to open the VS Code command palette. 

4. In the command palette, enter and run the command **Azure: Sign in** and follow the instructions to sign in your Azure account. If you're already signed in, you can skip this step.

5. In the command palette, enter and run the command **Azure IoT Edge: New IoT Edge solution**. In the command palette, provide the following information to create your solution: 

   1. Select the folder where you want to create the solution. 
   2. Provide a name for your solution or accept the default **EdgeSolution**.
   3. Choose **Python Module** as the module template. 
   4. Name your module **PythonModule**. 
   5. Specify the Azure container registry that you created in the previous section as the image repository for your first module. Replace **localhost:5000** with the login server value that you copied. The final string looks like \<registry name\>.azurecr.io/pythonmodule.
 
The VS Code window loads your IoT Edge solution workspace: the modules folder, a deployment manifest template file, and a \.env file. 

### Add your registry credentials

The environment file stores the credentials for your container repository and shares them with the IoT Edge runtime. The runtime needs these credentials to pull your private images onto the IoT Edge device. 

1. In the VS Code explorer, open the .env file. 
2. Update the fields with the **username** and **password** values that you copied from your Azure container registry. 
3. Save this file. 

### Update the module with custom code

Each template includes sample code, which takes simulated sensor data from the **tempSensor** module and routes it to the IoT hub. In this section, add the code that expands the **PythonModule** to analyze the messages before sending them. 

1. In the VS Code explorer, open **modules** > **PythonModule** > **main.py**.

2. At the top of the **main.py** file, import the **json** library:

    ```python
    import json
    ```

3. Add the **TEMPERATURE_THRESHOLD** and **TWIN_CALLBACKS** variables under the global counters. The temperature threshold sets the value that the measured machine temperature must exceed for the data to be sent to the IoT hub.

    ```python
    TEMPERATURE_THRESHOLD = 25
    TWIN_CALLBACKS = 0
    ```

4. Replace the **receive_message_callback** function with the following code:

    ```python
    # receive_message_callback is invoked when an incoming message arrives on the specified 
    # input queue (in the case of this sample, "input1").  Because this is a filter module, 
    # we forward this message to the "output1" queue.
    def receive_message_callback(message, hubManager):
        global RECEIVE_CALLBACKS
        global TEMPERATURE_THRESHOLD
        message_buffer = message.get_bytearray()
        size = len(message_buffer)
        message_text = message_buffer[:size].decode('utf-8')
        print ( "    Data: <<<%s>>> & Size=%d" % (message_text, size) )
        map_properties = message.properties()
        key_value_pair = map_properties.get_internals()
        print ( "    Properties: %s" % key_value_pair )
        RECEIVE_CALLBACKS += 1
        print ( "    Total calls received: %d" % RECEIVE_CALLBACKS )
        data = json.loads(message_text)
        if "machine" in data and "temperature" in data["machine"] and data["machine"]["temperature"] > TEMPERATURE_THRESHOLD:
            map_properties.add("MessageType", "Alert")
            print("Machine temperature %s exceeds threshold %s" % (data["machine"]["temperature"], TEMPERATURE_THRESHOLD))
        hubManager.forward_event_to_output("output1", message, 0)
        return IoTHubMessageDispositionResult.ACCEPTED
    ```

5. Add a new function called **module_twin_callback**. This function is invoked when the desired properties are updated.

    ```python
    # module_twin_callback is invoked when the module twin's desired properties are updated.
    def module_twin_callback(update_state, payload, user_context):
        global TWIN_CALLBACKS
        global TEMPERATURE_THRESHOLD
        print ( "\nTwin callback called with:\nupdateStatus = %s\npayload = %s\ncontext = %s" % (update_state, payload, user_context) )
        data = json.loads(payload)
        if "desired" in data and "TemperatureThreshold" in data["desired"]:
            TEMPERATURE_THRESHOLD = data["desired"]["TemperatureThreshold"]
        if "TemperatureThreshold" in data:
            TEMPERATURE_THRESHOLD = data["TemperatureThreshold"]
        TWIN_CALLBACKS += 1
        print ( "Total calls confirmed: %d\n" % TWIN_CALLBACKS )
    ```

6. In the **HubManager** class, add a new line to the **__init__** method to initialize the **module_twin_callback** function that you just added:

    ```python
    # Sets the callback when a module twin's desired properties are updated.
    self.client.set_module_twin_callback(module_twin_callback, self)
    ```

7. Save this file.

## Build your IoT Edge solution

In the previous section, you created an IoT Edge solution and added code to the **PythonModule** to filter out messages where the reported machine temperature is below the acceptable threshold. Now you need to build the solution as a container image and push it to your container registry. 

1. Sign in to Docker by entering the following command in the Visual Studio Code integrated terminal. Then you can push your module image to your Azure container registry: 
     
   ```csh/sh
   docker login -u <ACR username> -p <ACR password> <ACR login server>
   ```
   Use the username, password, and login server that you copied from your Azure container registry in the first section. You can also retrieve these values from the **Access keys** section of your registry in the Azure portal.

2. In the VS Code explorer, open the deployment.template.json file in your IoT Edge solution workspace. 

   This file tells the **$edgeAgent** to deploy two modules: **tempSensor**, which simulates device data, and **PythonModule**. The **PythonModule.image** value is set to a Linux amd64 version of the image. To learn more about deployment manifests, see [Understand how IoT Edge modules can be used, configured, and reused](module-composition.md).

   This file also contains your registry credentials. In the template file, your user name and password are filled in with placeholders. When you generate the deployment manifest, the fields are updated with the values that you added to the .env file. 

3. Add the **PythonModule** module twin to the deployment manifest. Insert the following JSON content at the bottom of the **moduleContent** section, after the **$edgeHub** module twin: 
    ```json
        "PythonModule": {
            "properties.desired":{
                "TemperatureThreshold":25
            }
        }
    ```

4. Save this file.

5. In the VS Code explorer, right-click the deployment.template.json file and select **Build IoT Edge solution**. 

When you tell Visual Studio Code to build your solution, it first takes the information in the deployment template and generates a deployment.json file in a new folder named **config**. Then it runs two commands in the integrated terminal: `docker build` and `docker push`. These two commands build your code, containerize the Python code, and then push the code to the container registry that you specified when you initialized the solution. 

You can see the full container image address with tag in the `docker build` command that runs in the VS Code integrated terminal. The image address is built from information in the module.json file with the format \<repository\>:\<version\>-\<platform\>. For this tutorial, it should look like registryname.azurecr.io/pythonmodule:0.0.1-amd64.

## Deploy and run the solution

You can use the Azure portal to deploy your Python module to an IoT Edge device like you did in the quickstarts. You can also deploy and monitor modules from within Visual Studio Code. The following sections use the Azure IoT Edge extension for VS Code that was listed in the prerequisites. Install the extension now, if you didn't already. 

1. Open the VS Code command palette by selecting **View** > **Command Palette**.

2. Search for and run the command **Azure: Sign in**. Follow the instructions to sign in your Azure account. 

3. In the command palette, search for and run the command **Azure IoT Hub: Select IoT Hub**. 

4. Select the subscription that contains your IoT hub, and then select the IoT hub that you want to access.

5. In the VS Code explorer, expand the **Azure IoT Hub Devices** section. 

6. Right-click the name of your IoT Edge device, and then select **Create Deployment for IoT Edge device**. 

7. Browse to the solution folder that contains the **PythonModule**. Open the config folder, select the deployment.json file, and then choose **Select Edge Deployment Manifest**.

8. Refresh the **Azure IoT Hub Devices** section. You should see the new **PythonModule** running along with the **TempSensor** module and the **$edgeAgent** and **$edgeHub**. 

## View generated data

1. To monitor data that arrives at the IoT hub, select the ellipsis (**...**), and then select **Start Monitoring D2C Messages**.
2. To monitor the D2C message for a specific device, right-click the device in the list, and select **Start Monitoring D2C Messages**.
3. To stop monitoring data, run the command **Azure IoT Hub: Stop monitoring D2C message** in the command palette. 
4. To view or update the module twin, right-click the module in the list, and select **Edit module twin**. To update the module twin, save the twin JSON file, right-click the editor area, and select **Update Module Twin**.
5. To view Docker logs, install [Docker](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PeterJausovec.vscode-docker) for VS Code. You can find your running modules locally in Docker explorer. In the context menu, click **Show Logs** to view in the integrated terminal. 

## Clean up resources 

<!--[!INCLUDE [iot-edge-quickstarts-clean-up-resources](../../includes/iot-edge-quickstarts-clean-up-resources.md)] -->

If you plan to continue to the next recommended article, you can keep the resources and configurations that you created and reuse them.

Otherwise, you can delete the local configurations and the Azure resources that you created in this article to avoid charges. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Deleting Azure resources and resource groups is irreversible. When these items are deleted, the resource group and all of the resources that are contained in it are permanently deleted. Make sure that you don't accidentally delete the wrong resource group or resources. If you created the IoT hub inside an existing resource group that has resources that you want to keep, delete only the IoT hub resource itself, instead of deleting the resource group.
>

To delete only the IoT hub, execute the following command by using your hub name and resource group name:

```azurecli-interactive
az iot hub delete --name MyIoTHub --resource-group TestResources
```


To delete the entire resource group by name:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and select **Resource groups**.

2. In the **Filter by name** textbox, enter the name of the resource group that contains your IoT hub. 

3. To the right of your resource group in the result list, select the ellipsis (**...**), and then select **Delete resource group**.

4. You're asked to confirm the deletion of the resource group. Reenter the name of your resource group to confirm and select **Delete**. After a few moments, the resource group and all of its contained resources are deleted.

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you created an IoT Edge module with code to filter raw data that's generated by your IoT Edge device. You can continue on to the next tutorials to learn other ways that Azure IoT Edge can help you turn data into business insights at the edge.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Deploy Azure functions as a module](tutorial-deploy-function.md)
> [Deploy Azure Stream Analytics as a module](tutorial-deploy-stream-analytics.md)


<!-- Links -->
[lnk-quickstart-win]: quickstart.md
[lnk-quickstart-lin]: quickstart-linux.md

<!-- Images -->
[1]: ./media/tutorial-csharp-module/programcs.png
[2]: ./media/tutorial-csharp-module/build-module.png
[3]: ./media/tutorial-csharp-module/docker-os.png
