---
title: Text to speech avatar overview - Speech service
titleSuffix: Azure AI services
description: Get an overview of the Text to speech avatar feature of speech service, which allows users to create synthetic videos featuring avatars speaking based on text input. 
services: cognitive-services
author: sally-baolian
manager: nitinme
ms.service: azure-ai-speech
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 11/15/2023
ms.author: v-baolianzou
ms.custom: cog-serv-seo-aug-2020
keywords: text to speech avatar
---
# Text to speech avatar overview

The text to speech avatar system is a text-to-speech feature with visual capability that allows you to create synthetic videos of a photorealistic avatar speaking based on input text.

The system offers a range of prebuilt avatar choices. The voice in the synthetic video could be a prebuilt neural voice available on Azure AI Speech or the [custom neural voice](../../custom-neural-voice.md) of talent selected by you. Prebuilt text to speech avatars can be accessed through a UI tool on the Speech Studio or from an API. We provide both batch mode and real-time synthesis. The language support for text to speech avatar is the same as the language support for text to speech. For details, see [Language and voice support for the Speech service](../../language-support.md?tabs=tts).

## Core features

Text to speech avatar includes the following features:

| Feature | Summary |
| --- | --- |
|Prebuilt text to speech avatar |Highly natural out-of-the-box avatars. Create an Azure account and Speech service subscription, and then use the Speech SDK or visit the [Speech Studio portal](https://aka.ms/speechstudio/talkingavatar) to select prebuilt text to speech avatars to get started. |
|Custom text to speech avatar|You can create a custom text to speech avatar for your product or brand by providing your own video recording data of your selected actors. If also creating a custom neural voice for the actor, the avatar will be highly realistic.|

## More about text to speech avatar features

Azure text to speech Avatar converts text into a digital video of a photorealistic human speaking with natural-sounding voices powered by Azure text-to-speech. It offers a collection of prebuilt avatars and allows you to create a custom text to speech avatar by providing your own video recording data. The text to speech avatar video can be synthesized asynchronously or in real-time. You can build applications with the text to speech avatar through an API, and we also provide a content creation tool on Speech Studio for you to create video content without coding.

With text to speech Avatar’s advanced neural network models, the feature empowers you to deliver lifelike and high-quality synthetic talking avatar videos for various applications while adhering to responsible AI practices.

Here’s more information about the text to speech avatar:

- **Real time avatar synthesis:** Try the [quickstart](../../get-started-text-to-speech.md) to convert text to avatar video in real-time.

- **Batch or offline video content generation:** Use [REST API](../../rest-text-to-speech.md) or [Speech Studio](https://aka.ms/speechstudio/talkingavatar) to generate avatar video content with text input.

- **Voice and language:** The voice of the avatar is generated by Azure text to speech, including [prebuilt neural voices](../../language-support.md?tabs=tts) or [custom neural voices](../../custom-neural-voice.md). And the language support is the same as the language we support with Azure text to speech.

## Get started

To get started with text to speech avatar, see the [How to synthesize text to speech avatar](get-started-avatar.md).

> [!TIP]
> To convert text to speech with a no-code approach, try the [Text to speech avatar tool in Speech Studio](https://aka.ms/speechstudio/talkingavatar).

## Avatar video output

Both batch synthesis and real-time synthesis resolution are 1920 * 1080, FPS is 25. Batch synthesis codec can be h264 or h265 if the format is mp4 and can set codec as vp9 if the format is webm; only webm can contain an alpha channel. Real-time synthesis codec is h264. Video bitrate can be configured for both batch synthesis and real-time synthesis in the request; the default value is 2000000; more detailed configurations can be found in the sample code.

|                  | Batch synthesis  | Real-Time synthesis |
|------------------|------------------|----------------------|
| **Resolution**   | 1920 * 1080      | 1920 * 1080          |
| **FPS**          | 25               | 25                   |
| **Codec**        | h264/h265/vp9    | h264                 |

## Sample code

Sample code for text to speech avatar is available on GitHub. These samples cover the most popular scenarios:

* [Batch synthesis (REST)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/cognitive-services-speech-sdk/tree/master/samples/batch-avatar)
* [Real-time synthesis (SDK)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/cognitive-services-speech-sdk/tree/master/samples/js/browser/avatar#basic-sample)
* [Live chat with Azure Open AI in behind (SDK)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/cognitive-services-speech-sdk/tree/master/samples/js/browser/avatar#chat-sample)

## Custom text to speech avatar

You can create custom text to speech avatars that are unique to your product or brand. All it takes to get started is taking 10 minutes of video recordings. For more information, see [Get started with custom text to speech avatar](what-is-custom-tts-avatar.md).

## Pricing

When you use the text to speech avatar feature, you will be billed by the minutes of video output, and the text to speech, speech to text, Azure Open AI, or other Azure services will be charged separately.

For more details, see [Speech service pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cognitive-services/speech-services/).

## Reference docs

* [Speech SDK](../../speech-sdk.md)
* [REST API: text to speech](../../rest-text-to-speech.md)
  
### Responsible AI 

We care about the people who use the AI system and the people who will be affected by it as much as we care about technology. For more information, see the Responsible AI [transparency notes](../../../cognitive-services-limited-access.md).


## Next steps

* [How to synthesize text to speech avatar](get-started-avatar.md)
* [What is custom text to speech avatar](what-is-custom-tts-avatar.md)
