# Export your model to mobile 

Custom Vision Service allows classifiers to be exported to run offline. You can embed your exported classifier into an application and run it locally on a device for real-time classification. The first format supported for export is the CoreML format for iOS11, with more formats and devices coming soon. 

Custom Vision Service only exports “compact” domains. The models generated by “compact” domains are optimized for the constraints of real-time classification on mobile devices. Classifiers built with a “compact” domain may be slightly less accurate a standard domain with the same amount of training data. The tradeoff is that they are small enough to be run locally in near real time. For general tips on improving your classifiers, [follow the steps in this article.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/custom-vision-service/getting-started-improving-your-classifier)
## Converting your project to a “compact” domain
If you are starting from scratch to build a new classifier, follow the instructions for the “Build a Classifier” Quickstart. However, when choosing a domain for your classifier, you must select a “compact” domain. 
 If you have an existing classifier, you need to convert it to a compact domain. To convert the domain of an existing classifier:
1. Open the project you want to convert to a compact domain. You can find a list of your projects at https://customvision.ai/projects
2. Open the settings page for this classifier by clicking on the gear-shaped icon at the top right. From within the setting page, select a “compact” domain and then hit “Save Changes”
3. After changing your domain, you will need to hit the “Train” button to train your project
## Exporting your model
Once your project has finished training, you can export your model. To do so:
1. Go to the “Performance” tab and select the iteration you want to export (probably your most recent iteration.
3. If this iteration used a “compact” domain, an export button appears at the top bar. 
4. Click on export, then select your format (today only iOS/CoreML is available, with more formats are coming soon.)
5. Click on “export” and then “download” to download your model. 
6. A sample of how to [use your exported CoreML model in an iOS application](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=857726) for real-time image classification is available.
