---
title: About repositories and images in Azure Container Registry
description: Introduction to key concepts of Azure container registries, repositories, and container images.
services: container-registry
author: dlepow

ms.service: container-registry
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 06/28/2019
ms.author: danlep
---

# About registries, repositories, and images

This article introduces the key concepts of container registries, repositories, and container images. 

## Registry

A container *registry* is a service that stores and distributes container images. Docker Hub is a public Docker container registry, while Azure Container Registry provides private Docker container registries in Azure. 

## Repository

Container registries manage *repositories*, collections of container images with the same name, but different tags. For example, the following three images are in the "acr-helloworld" repository:

```
acr-helloworld:latest
acr-helloworld:v1
acr-helloworld:v2
```

Repository names can also include [namespaces](container-registry-best-practices.md#repository-namespaces). Namespaces allow you to group images using forward slash-delimited repository names, for example:

```
marketing/campaign10-18/web:v2
marketing/campaign10-18/api:v3
marketing/campaign10-18/email-sender:v2
product-returns/web-submission:20180604
product-returns/legacy-integrator:20180715
```

## Image

A container image within a registry is associated with one or more tags, has one or more layers, and is identified by a manifest. Understanding how these components relate to each other can help you manage your registry effectively.

### Tag

An image's *tag* specifies its version. A single image within a repository can be assigned one or many tags, and may also be "untagged." That is, you can delete all tags from an image, while the image's data (its layers) remain in the registry.

The repository (or repository and namespace) plus a tag defines an image's name. You can push and pull an image by specifying its name in the push or pull operation.

In a private registry like Azure Container Registry, the image name also includes the fully qualified name of the registry host. The registry host for images in ACR is in the format *acrname.azurecr.io* (all lowercase). For example, the full name of the first image in the "marketing" namespace in the previous section would be:

```
myregistry.azurecr.io/marketing/campaign10-18/web:v2
```

How you tag container images is guided by your scenarios to develop or deploy them. For more information, see [Recommendations for tagging and versioning container images](container-registry-image-tagging-versioning.md).

### Layer

Images are made up of one or more *layers*, each corresponding to a line in the Dockerfile that defines the image. Images in a registry share common layers, increasing storage efficiency. For example, several images in different repositories might share the same Alpine Linux base layer, but only one copy of that layer is stored in the registry.

Layer sharing also optimizes layer distribution to nodes with multiple images sharing common layers. For example, if an image already on a node includes the Alpine Linux layer as its base, the subsequent pull of a different image referencing the same layer doesn't transfer the layer to the node. Instead, it references the layer already existing on the node.

### Manifest

Each container image pushed to a container registry is associated with a *manifest*. The manifest, generated by the registry when the image is pushed, uniquely identifies the image and specifies its layers. You can list the manifests for a repository with the Azure CLI command [az acr repository show-manifests][az-acr-repository-show-manifests]:

```azurecli
az acr repository show-manifests --name <acrName> --repository <repositoryName>
```

For example, list the manifest digests for the "acr-helloworld" repository:

```console
$ az acr repository show-manifests --name myregistry --repository acr-helloworld
[
  {
    "digest": "sha256:0a2e01852872580b2c2fea9380ff8d7b637d3928783c55beb3f21a6e58d5d108",
    "tags": [
      "latest",
      "v3"
    ],
    "timestamp": "2018-07-12T15:52:00.2075864Z"
  },
  {
    "digest": "sha256:3168a21b98836dda7eb7a846b3d735286e09a32b0aa2401773da518e7eba3b57",
    "tags": [
      "v2"
    ],
    "timestamp": "2018-07-12T15:50:53.5372468Z"
  },
  {
    "digest": "sha256:7ca0e0ae50c95155dbb0e380f37d7471e98d2232ed9e31eece9f9fb9078f2728",
    "tags": [
      "v1"
    ],
    "timestamp": "2018-07-11T21:38:35.9170967Z"
  }
]
```

### Manifest digest

Manifests are identified by a unique SHA-256 hash, or *manifest digest*. Each image--whether tagged or not--is identified by its digest. The digest value is unique even if the image's layer data is identical to that of another image. This mechanism is what allows you to repeatedly push identically tagged images to a registry. For example, you can repeatedly push `myimage:latest` to your registry without error because each image is identified by its unique digest.

You can pull an image from a registry by specifying its digest in the pull operation. Some systems may be configured to pull by digest because it guarantees the image version being pulled, even if an identically tagged image is subsequently pushed to the registry.

For example, pull an image from the "acr-helloworld" repository by manifest digest:

```console
$ docker pull myregistry.azurecr.io/acr-helloworld@sha256:0a2e01852872580b2c2fea9380ff8d7b637d3928783c55beb3f21a6e58d5d108
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you repeatedly push modified images with identical tags, you might create orphaned images--images that are untagged, but still consume space in your registry. Untagged images are not shown in the Azure CLI or in the Azure portal when you list or view images by tag. However, their layers still exist and consume space in your registry. For information about freeing space used by untagged images, see [Delete container images in Azure Container Registry](container-registry-delete.md).


## Next steps

Learn more about [image storage](container-registry-storage.md) and [supported content formats](container-registry-image-formats.md) in Azure Container Registry.


