---
title: Monitor Azure Container Registry 
description: Start here to learn how to monitor your Azure container registry using features of Azure Monitor
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: subject-monitoring 
ms.service: container-registry
author: tejaswikolli-web
ms.author: tejaswikolli
ms.date: 10/11/2022
---

# Monitor Azure Container Registry

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation. This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Container Registry and how you can use the features of Azure Monitor to analyze and alert on this data.

## Monitor overview

The **Overview** page in the Azure portal for each registry includes a brief view of recent resource usage and activity, such as push and pull operations. This high-level information is useful, but only a small amount of data is shown there.

:::image type="content" source="media/monitor-service/metrics-overview.png" alt-text="Registry metrics overview":::

## What is Azure Monitor?

Azure Container Registry creates monitoring data using [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md), which is a full stack monitoring service in Azure that provides a complete set of features to monitor your Azure resources in addition to resources in other clouds and on-premises.

Start with the article [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md), which describes the following concepts:

- What is Azure Monitor?
- Costs associated with monitoring
- Monitoring data collected in Azure
- Configuring data collection
- Standard tools in Azure for analyzing and alerting on monitoring data

The following sections build on this article by describing the specific data gathered for Azure Container Registry and providing examples for configuring data collection and analyzing this data with Azure tools.

## Monitoring data

Azure Container Registry collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md#monitoring-data).

See [Monitoring Azure Container Registry data reference](monitor-service-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs created by Azure Container Registry.

## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

Resource Logs are not collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](../azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings.md) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for Azure Container Registry are listed in [Azure Container Registry monitoring data reference](monitor-service-reference.md#resource-logs).

> [!TIP]
> You can also create registry diagnostic settings by navigating to your registry in the portal. In the menu, select **Diagnostic settings** under **Monitoring**.

The following image shows the options when you enable diagnostic settings for a registry.

:::image type="content" source="media/monitor-service/diagnostic-settings.png" alt-text="Diagnostic settings for container registry":::

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for an Azure container registry with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started.md) for details on using this tool.

> [!TIP]
> You can also go to the metrics explorer by navigating to your registry in the portal. In the menu, select **Metrics** under **Monitoring**.

For a list of the platform metrics collected for Azure Container Registry, see [Monitoring Azure Container Registry data reference metrics](monitor-service-reference.md#metrics)  

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported.md).

### Azure CLI

The following Azure CLI commands can be used to get information about the Azure Container Registry metrics.

* [az monitor metrics list-definitions](/cli/azure/monitor/metrics#az-monitor-metrics-list-definitions) - List metric definitions and dimensions
* [az monitor metrics list](/cli/azure/monitor/metrics#az-monitor-metrics-list) - Retrieve metric values

### REST API

You can use the Azure Monitor REST API to get information programmatically about the Azure Container Registry metrics.

* [List metric definitions and dimensions](/rest/api/monitor/metricdefinitions/list)
* [Retrieve metric values](/rest/api/monitor/metrics/list)

## Analyzing logs

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema.md#top-level-common-schema). The schema for Azure Container Registry resource logs is found in the [Azure Container Registry Data Reference](monitor-service-reference.md#schemas). 

The [Activity log](../azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log.md) is a platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.  

For a list of the types of resource logs collected for Azure Container Registry, see [Monitoring Azure Container Registry data reference](monitor-service-reference.md#resource-logs).  

For a list of the tables used by Azure Monitor Logs and queryable by Log Analytics, see [Monitoring Azure Container Reference data reference](monitor-service-reference.md#azure-monitor-logs-tables).  

### Sample Kusto queries

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you select **Logs** from the **Azure Container Registry** menu, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current registry. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other registries or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](/azure/azure-monitor/log-query/scope/) for details.

For example, the following query retrieves the most recent 24 hours of data from the **ContainerRegistryRepositoryEvents** table:

```Kusto
ContainerRegistryRepositoryEvents
| where TimeGenerated > ago(1d) 
```

The following image shows sample output:

:::image type="content" source="media/monitor-service/azure-monitor-query.png" alt-text="Query log data":::

Following are queries that you can use to help you monitor your registry resource.

### Error events from the last hour

```Kusto
union Event, Syslog // Event table stores Windows event records, Syslog stores Linux records
| where TimeGenerated > ago(1h)
| where EventLevelName == "Error" // EventLevelName is used in the Event (Windows) records
	or SeverityLevel== "err" // SeverityLevel is used in Syslog (Linux) records
```

### 100 most recent registry events

```Kusto
ContainerRegistryRepositoryEvents
| union ContainerRegistryLoginEvents
| top 100 by TimeGenerated
| project TimeGenerated, LoginServer, OperationName, Identity, Repository, DurationMs, Region , ResultType
```

### Identity of user or object that deleted repository

```Kusto
ContainerRegistryRepositoryEvents
| where OperationName contains "Delete"
| project LoginServer, OperationName, Repository, Identity, CallerIpAddress
```

### Identity of user or object that deleted tag

```Kusto
ContainerRegistryRepositoryEvents
| where OperationName contains "Untag"
| project LoginServer, OperationName, Repository, Tag, Identity, CallerIpAddress
```

### Repository-level operation failures

```kusto
ContainerRegistryRepositoryEvents 
| where ResultDescription contains "40"
| project TimeGenerated, OperationName, Repository, Tag, ResultDescription
```

### Registry authentication failures

```kusto
ContainerRegistryLoginEvents 
| where ResultDescription != "200"
| project TimeGenerated, Identity, CallerIpAddress, ResultDescription
```

## Alerts

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric-overview.md), [logs](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-unified-log.md), and the [activity log](../azure-monitor/alerts/activity-log-alerts.md). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks.

<!-- only include next line if applications run on your service and work with App Insights. 

If you are creating or running an application which run on <*service*> [Azure Monitor Application Insights](../azure-monitor/overview.md#application-insights) may offer additional types of alerts.
-->

The following table lists common and recommended alert rules for Azure Container Registry.

<!-- Fill in the table with metric and log alerts that would be valuable for your service. Change the format as necessary to make it more readable -->
| Alert type | Condition | Description  |
|:---|:---|:---|
| metric | Signal: Storage used<br/>Operator: Greater than<br/>Aggregation type: Average<br/>Threshold value: 5 GB|  Alerts if the registry storage used exceeds a specified value.|
| | | |

### Example: Send email alert when registry storage used exceeds a value

1. In the Azure portal, navigate to your registry.
1. Select **Metrics** under **Monitoring**.
1. In the metrics explorer, in **Metric**, select **Storage used**.
1. Select **New alert rule**.
1. In **Scope**, confirm the registry resource for which you want to create an alert rule.
1. In **Condition**, select **Add condition**.
    1. In **Signal name**, select **Storage used**.
    1. In **Chart period**, select **Over the last 24 hours**.
    1. In **Alert logic**, in **Threshold value**, select a value such as *5*. In **Unit**, select a value such as *GB*.
    1. Accept default values for the remaining settings, and select **Done**.
1. In **Actions**, select **Add action groups** > **+ Create action group**.
    1. Enter details of the action group.
    1. On the **Notifications** tab, select **Email/SMS message/Push/Voice** and enter a recipient such as *admin@contoso.com*. Select **Review + create**.
1. Enter a name and description of the alert rule, and select the severity level.
1. Select **Create alert rule**.

## Next steps

- See [Monitoring Azure Container Registry data reference](monitor-service-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure Container Registry.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md) for details on monitoring Azure resources.
- See [Show registry usage](container-registry-skus.md#show-registry-usage) for information about how to get a snapshot of storage usage and other resource consumption in your registry.
