As part of the prerequisites for this quickstart, you downloaded the sample code to a folder. Follow these steps to examine and edit the sample code.

1. In Visual Studio Code, go to *src/edge*. You see your *.env* file and a few deployment template files.

    The deployment template refers to the deployment manifest for the edge device, where variables are used for some properties. The *.env* file includes the values for those variables.
1. Go to the *src/cloud-to-device-console-app* folder. Here you see the *appsettings.json* file and a few other files:
    * ***c2d-console-app.csproj*** - The project file for Visual Studio Code.
    * ***operations.json*** - The list of operations that you want the program to run.
    * ***Program.cs*** - The sample program code. This code:

        * Loads the app settings.
        * Invokes direct methods that the Live Video Analytics on IoT Edge module exposes. You can use the module to analyze live video streams by invoking its [direct methods](../../../direct-methods.md). 
        * Pauses so you can examine the output from the program in the **TERMINAL** window and examine the events generated by the module in the **OUTPUT** window.
        * Invokes direct methods to clean up resources.

1. Edit the *operations.json* file:
    * Change the link to the graph topology:

        `"topologyUrl" : "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/live-video-analytics/master/MediaGraph/topologies/evr-motion-files/2.0/topology.json"`
    * Under `GraphInstanceSet`, edit the name of the graph topology to match the value in the preceding link:
    
      `"topologyName" : "EVRToFilesOnMotionDetection"`
    * Edit the RTSP URL to point to the video file:

        `"value": "rtsp://rtspsim:554/media/lots_015.mkv"`
    * Under `GraphTopologyDelete`, edit the name:

        `"name": "EVRToFilesOnMotionDetection"`
