---
title: 'Quickstart: Recognize speech in Objective-C on iOS using the Cognitive Services Speech SDK'
titleSuffix: "Microsoft Cognitive Services"
description: Learn how to recognize speech in Objective-C on iOS using the Cognitive Services Speech SDK
services: cognitive-services
author: chlandsi

ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.technology: Speech
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 09/24/2018
ms.author: chlandsi
---

# Quickstart: Recognize speech in Objective-C on iOS using the Cognitive Services Speech SDK

[!INCLUDE [Selector](../../../includes/cognitive-services-speech-service-quickstart-selector.md)]

In this article, you learn how to create an iOS app in Objective-C using the Cognitive Services Speech SDK to transcribe an audio file with recorded speech to text.

## Prerequisites

* A subscription key for the Speech service. See [Try the speech service for free](get-started.md).
* A Mac with XCode installed as iOS development environment. If you don't have XCode yet, you can install it from the App Store.

## Get the Speech SDK for iOS

[!INCLUDE [License Notice](../../../includes/cognitive-services-speech-service-license-notice.md)]

The current version of the Cognitive Services Speech SDK is `0.6.0`.

DRAFT: The Cognitive Services Speech SDK for Mac and iOS can be downloaded as a zip-file from https://aka.ms/csspeech/macbinary. Download and copy the files to the `speechsdk` subdirectory in your home directory.


## Create an XCode Project 

Start XCode, and start a new project by clicking **File** > **New** > **Project**.
In the template selection dialog, choose the "iOS Single View App" template.

In the dialogs that follow, make the following selections:

1. App Info Screen
    1. Enter a name for the quickstart app, for example `SpeechQuickstart`.
	1. Enter an organization name such as `TestOrg`.
	1. Disable all tests for this example project.
1. Select project directory
	1. Choose your home directory to put the project in. This will create a `SpeechQuickstart` directory in your home directory that contains all the files for the XCode project.
	1. Disable the creation of a git repo for this example project.
1. Adjust the paths to the SDK in the *Project Settings*
	1. Add the SDK library as a framework: **Add framework** > **Add other...** > *Navigate to the directory containing the library*.
	1. Add the path to SDK headers to the *header search path* (`$(SRCROOT)/../speechsdk/source/bindings/objective-c/public`).
	1. Add the path to the directory containing the library to the *library search path* (`$(SRCROOT)/../speechsdk/build_ios_simulator_debug/lib`).
	1. Add the path to the directory containing the library to the *Runpath search path* (`$(SRCROOT)/../speechsdk/build_ios_simulator_debug/lib`).

TODO: screenshot with the relevant settings

## Add the sample code

1. Replace the contents of the autogenerated `main.m` file by:

TODO adapt link

  [!code-cpp[Quickstart Code](~/samples-cognitive-services-speech-sdk/quickstart/cpp-linux/helloworld.cpp#code)]

1. Replace the string `YourSubscriptionKey` with your subscription key.

1. Replace the string `YourServiceRegion` with the [region](regions.md) associated with your subscription (for example, `westus` for the free trial subscription).

TODO download the [sample wav file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/Cognitive-Speech-STT-Android/95b698b584bce01d7cfa7faa15fb254482b6402e/samples/SpeechRecoExample/assets/whatstheweatherlike.wav) by right-clicking it and choosing "Save target as...".
Add the wav file to the project as a resource by dragging it from a Finder window into the root level of the Project view.

TODO: screenshot of "Choose options dialog"
TODO: screenshot of resulting project tree

## Building and Running the Sample

1. Make the debug output visible (**View** > **Debug Area** -> **Activate Console**).
1. Build and run the example code by selecting **Product** -> **Run** from the menu or clicking the "Play" button.
1. Verify that the debug output contains intermediate and a final speech recognition result.



[!INCLUDE [Download the sample](../../../includes/cognitive-services-speech-service-speech-sdk-sample-download-h2.md)]
Look for this sample in the `quickstart/objectivec-ios` folder.

## Next steps

* [Get our samples](speech-sdk.md#get-the-samples)
