---
title: Create a Tenant Language Model - Speech Service
titleSuffix: Azure Cognitive Services
description: Automatically generate a custom speech model that leverages your Office365 data to deliver optimal speech recognition for organization-specific terms that is both secure and compliant.
services: cognitive-services
author: erhopf
manager: nitinme
ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.subservice: speech-service
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 11/4/2019
ms.author: erhopf
---

# Create a Tenant Language Model (Preview)

Tenant Language Model is an opt-in service for Office365 enterprise customers that automatically generates a custom speech recognition model from your Office365 data. The model that's created is optimized for organization-specific terms, like technical terms and people's names, all in a secure and compliant way.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If your organization enrolls with Tenant Language Model, the Speech service may access your organization’s language model, which is generated by Office 365 resources, such as emails and documents. Your organization’s Office 365 administrator may turn on/off the usage of the organization-wide language model using the Office 365 Admin Portal.

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to:

* Enroll to use a Tenant Language Model in the Microsoft 365 Admin Center
* Create a Tenant Language Model
* Publish a Tenant Language Model
* Use a Tenant Language Model with the Speech SDK
* Update a Tenant Language Model

## Enroll using the Microsoft 365 Admin Center

Before you can create or publish a Tenant Language Model, you first need to enroll using the Microsoft 365 Admin Center. This task can only be completed by your Microsoft 365 Admin.

1. Sign into the [Microsoft 365 Admin Center](https://admin.microsoft.com ).
2. From the left panel, select **Settings** then **Apps**.
3. Locate and select **Azure Speech Services**.
4. Click the checkbox and save.

If you need to turn off the Tenant Language Model, navigate back to this screen, deselect the checkbox and save.

## Create a model

After your admin has enabled Tenant Language Model for your organization, you can create a language model based on your O365 data.

1. Sign into the [Speech Studio](https://speech.microsoft.com/).
2. In the upper right corner, locate and click the gear icon (settings), then select **Tenant Model setting**.
3. At this point you'll see a message letting you know if you are qualified to create a Tenant Language Model.
   > [!NOTE]
   > Office 365 enterprise customers in NAM, EURO, and APAC are eligible to create a Tenant Language Model (English). If you are a Customer Lockbox (CLB) or Customer Key (CK) customer, this feature isn't available. To determine if you are a Customer Lockbox or Customer Key customer, follow these instructions:
   > * [Customer Lockbox](https://docs.microsoft.com/office365/securitycompliance/controlling-your-data-using-customer-key#FastTrack)
   > * [Customer Key](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/compliance/customer-lockbox-requests)

4. Next, select **Train**. You'll receive an email with instructions when your Tenant Language Model is ready.

## Publish your model

When your Tenant Language Model is ready, there are two ways to publish it.

* **Option 1:** Click the **Publish** button in the email that you received.
* **Option 2:**
  1. Sign into the [Speech Studio](https://speech.microsoft.com/).
  2. In the upper right corner, locate and click the gear icon (settings), then select **Tenant Model setting**.
  3. Click **Publish**.
  4. When your model is ready, the status will change to **Succeeded**.

## Use your model with the Speech SDK

Now that you've published your model, you can use it with the Speech SDK. In this section, you'll create an **App registration** for use with **Azure Active Directory (AAD)**. Then using the sample code provided you'll call the Speech Service using AAD authentication.

Let's start by registering your app with AAD:

1. Sign into the [Azure portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/).
2. From the left navigation, select **Azure Active Directory**, then select **App registration**.
3. Click **+New application** to register your app.
4. Get the **Application ID**. You'll use this with the sample code.  

> [!NOTE]
> For detailed AAD instructions, see [Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app).

Next, let's get you setup to use the Speech SDK for C# to call the Speech Service using your Tenant Language Model:

1. Open Visual Studio 2019 and create a new project.
2. Install the Speech SDK NuGet package.
3. Add this sample code to your project.
4. Update these values:
   * To be provided by Brenda Meng.
   * ...
   * ...

## Update your model

While Tenant Language Model is in preview, you'll be able to update the language model manually once per year. When you update the language model, the original is replaced.

1. Sign into the [Speech Studio](https://speech.microsoft.com/).
2. In the upper right corner, locate and click the gear icon (settings), then select **Tenant Model setting**.
3. Locate and select **Update**.
4. You'll receive an email with instructions when your Tenant Language Model is ready.
5. When the model is ready, [publish your model](#publish-your-model).

## See also

* [Speech Studio](https://speech.microsoft.com/)
* [Speech SDK](speech-sdk.md)
