---
title: Search backups of Azure NetApp Files volumes 
description: You can display and search for backups at the NetApp account level or the volume level. 
services: azure-netapp-files
author: b-hchen
ms.service: azure-netapp-files
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 07/18/2025
ms.author: anfdocs
# Customer intent: As a cloud administrator, I want to search for backups of Azure NetApp Files volumes, so that I can efficiently manage and restore backups according to my data protection strategy.
---
# Search backups of Azure NetApp Files volumes

The names used for snapshots are preserved when the snapshots are backed up. Snapshot names include the prefix `daily`, `weekly`, or `monthly`. They also include the timestamp when the snapshot was created.

If a volume is deleted, its backups are retained. The backups are listed in the associated backup vault, under the **Backups** section. This list includes all backups within the backup vault in the region. It can be used to restore a backup to a volume in another NetApp account under the same subscription.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>All existing backups must be migrated to backup vaults. You can search for backups, but you're unable to perform any operations on a backup until the backup has migrated to a backup vault. For more information about this procedure, see [Manage a backup vault](backup-vault-manage.md).

In addition to name, size, and type, backups display time-based information:

| Field | Description |
| - | - | 
| Started | Date and time the snapshot was created | 
| Initiated | Date and time the backup was created |
| Completed | Date and time the backup was completed | 
| Duration | The elapsed time from the creation of the snapshot to the completion of the backup time. When you create a backup with existing snapshot, the reported backup duration can appear longer than the actual time taken for the backup operation. |

## Search backups from backup vault 

1. Select **Backups**.
1. In the **Search Backups** field, enter the backup name that you want to search for.  

    A partial search is supported; you don’t have to specify the entire backup name. The search filters the backups based on the search string.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/backup-search/backup-search-vault.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows a list of backups in a vault." lightbox="./media/backup-search/backup-search-vault.png":::

## Search backups at volume level 

You can display and search backups at the volume level:

1. Select **Volumes**.

1. If you've migrated to a backup vault, navigate to **Backup Vault**. Select the backup vault.
    If you've not yet migrated to a backup vault, navigate to **Backups**.   
    The **Type** column shows whether the backup is generated by a *Scheduled* (policy-based) or a *manual* backup.

3. In the **Search Backups** field, enter the backup name that you want to search for.  

    A partial search is supported; you don’t have to specify the entire backup name. The search filters the backups based on the search string.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/backup-search/backup-search-volume-level.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows a list of backup for a volume." lightbox="./media/backup-search/backup-search-volume-level.png":::

## Next steps  

* [Understand Azure NetApp Files backup](backup-introduction.md)
* [Requirements and considerations for Azure NetApp Files backup](backup-requirements-considerations.md)
* [Resource limits for Azure NetApp Files](azure-netapp-files-resource-limits.md)
* [Configure policy-based backups](backup-configure-policy-based.md)
* [Configure manual backups](backup-configure-manual.md)
* [Manage backup policies](backup-manage-policies.md)
* [Restore a backup to a new volume](backup-restore-new-volume.md)
* [Delete backups of a volume](backup-delete.md)
* [Volume backup metrics](azure-netapp-files-metrics.md#volume-backup-metrics)
* [Azure NetApp Files backup FAQs](faq-backup.md)
