---
title: Performance impact of Kerberos on Azure NetApp Files NFSv4.1 volumes | Microsoft Docs
description: Describes the available security options, the tested performance vectors, and the expected performance impact of kerberos on Azure NetApp Files NFSv4.1 volumes.  
services: azure-netapp-files
documentationcenter: ''
author: b-hchen
manager: ''
editor: ''

ms.assetid:
ms.service: azure-netapp-files
ms.workload: storage
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 08/22/2022
ms.author: anfdocs
---
# Performance impact of Kerberos on Azure NetApp Files NFSv4.1 volumes

Azure NetApp Files supports [NFS client encryption in Kerberos](configure-kerberos-encryption.md) modes (krb5, krb5i, and krb5p) with AES-256 encryption. This article describes the performance impact of Kerberos on NFSv4.1 volumes. **Performance comparisons referenced in this article are made against the `sec=sys` security parameter, testing on a single volume with a single client.**

## Available security options 

The security options currently available for NFSv4.1 volumes are as follows: 

* **sec=sys** uses local UNIX UIDs and GIDs by using AUTH_SYS to authenticate NFS operations.
* **sec=krb5** uses Kerberos V5 instead of local UNIX UIDs and GIDs to authenticate users.
* **sec=krb5i** uses Kerberos V5 for user authentication and performs integrity checking of NFS operations using secure checksums to prevent data tampering.
* **sec=krb5p** uses Kerberos V5 for user authentication and integrity checking. It encrypts NFS traffic to prevent traffic sniffing. This option is the most secure setting, but it also involves the most performance overhead.

## Performance vectors tested

This section describes the single client-side performance impact of the various `sec=*` options.

* Performance impact was tested at two levels: low concurrency (low load) and high concurrency (upper limits of I/O and throughput).  
* Three types of workloads were tested:  
    * Small operation random read/write (using FIO)
    * Large operation sequential read/write (using FIO)
    * Metadata heavy workload as generated by applications such as git

## Expected performance impact 

There are two areas of focus: light load and upper limit. The following lists describe the performance impact security setting by security setting and scenario by scenario.

**Testing Scope**
* All comparisons are made against the `sec=sys` security parameter.
* The test was done on a single volume, using a single client. 

**Performance impact of krb5:**

* Average IOPS decreased by 53%
* Average throughput decreased by 53% 
* Average latency increased by 0.2 ms

**Performance impact of krb5i:**

* Average IOPS decreased by 55%
* Average throughput decreased by 55% 
* Average latency increased by 0.6 ms

**Performance impact of krb5p:**

* Average IOPS decreased by 77%
* Average throughput decreased by 77% 
* Average latency increased by 1.6 ms

## Performance considerations with `nconnect`

[!INCLUDE [nconnect krb5 performance warning](includes/kerberos-nconnect-performance.md)]

## Next steps  

* [Configure NFSv4.1 Kerberos encryption for Azure NetApp Files](configure-kerberos-encryption.md) 
