articles/azure-cache-for-redis/cache-how-to-active-geo-replication.md, before:

---
title: Configure active geo-replication for Enterprise Azure Cache for Redis instances
description: Learn how to replicate your Azure Cache for Redis Enterprise instances across Azure regions
author: yegu-ms
ms.service: cache
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/08/2021
ms.author: yegu
---
# Configure active geo-replication for Enterprise Azure Cache for Redis instances (Preview)

In this article, you'll learn how to configure an active geo-replicated Azure Cache using the Azure portal.

Active geo-replication groups two or more Enterprise Azure Cache for Redis instances into a single cache that spans across Azure regions. All instance act as the local primaries. An application decides which instance(s) to use for read and write requests.

## Create or join an active geo-replication group

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Active geo-replication must be enabled at the time an Azure Cache for Redis is created.
>
>

1. In the **New Redis Cache** creation UI, click **Configure** to set up **Active geo-replication** in the **Advanced** tab.

    ![Configure active geo-replication](./media/cache-how-to-active-geo-replication/cache-active-geo-replication-not-configured.png)

1. Create a new replication group, for a first cache instance, or select an existing one from the list.

    ![Link caches](./media/cache-how-to-active-geo-replication/cache-active-geo-replication-new-group.png)

1. Click **Configure** to finish.

    ![Active geo-replication configured](./media/cache-how-to-active-geo-replication/cache-active-geo-replication-configured.png)

1. Repeat the above steps for each additional cache instance in the geo-replication group.

## Remove from an active geo-replication group

To remove a cache instance from an active geo-replication group, simply delete the instance. The remaining instances will reconfigure themselves automatically.

## Next steps

Learn more about Azure Cache for Redis features.

* [Azure Cache for Redis service tiers](cache-overview.md#service-tiers)
* [High availability for Azure Cache for Redis](cache-high-availability.md)

Commit message:

Clarify that first cache create needs to be completed before other instances during setup

articles/azure-cache-for-redis/cache-how-to-active-geo-replication.md, after:

---
title: Configure active geo-replication for Enterprise Azure Cache for Redis instances
description: Learn how to replicate your Azure Cache for Redis Enterprise instances across Azure regions
author: yegu-ms
ms.service: cache
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/08/2021
ms.author: yegu
---
# Configure active geo-replication for Enterprise Azure Cache for Redis instances (Preview)

In this article, you'll learn how to configure an active geo-replicated Azure Cache using the Azure portal.

Active geo-replication groups two or more Enterprise Azure Cache for Redis instances into a single cache that spans across Azure regions. All instance act as the local primaries. An application decides which instance(s) to use for read and write requests.

## Create or join an active geo-replication group

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Active geo-replication must be enabled at the time an Azure Cache for Redis is created.
>
>

1. In the **New Redis Cache** creation UI, click **Configure** to set up **Active geo-replication** in the **Advanced** tab.

    ![Configure active geo-replication](./media/cache-how-to-active-geo-replication/cache-active-geo-replication-not-configured.png)

1. Create a new replication group, for a first cache instance, or select an existing one from the list.

    ![Link caches](./media/cache-how-to-active-geo-replication/cache-active-geo-replication-new-group.png)

1. Click **Configure** to finish.

    ![Active geo-replication configured](./media/cache-how-to-active-geo-replication/cache-active-geo-replication-configured.png)

1. Wait for the first cache to be created successfully. Repeat the above steps for each additional cache instance in the geo-replication group.

## Remove from an active geo-replication group

To remove a cache instance from an active geo-replication group, simply delete the instance. The remaining instances will reconfigure themselves automatically.

## Next steps

Learn more about Azure Cache for Redis features.

* [Azure Cache for Redis service tiers](cache-overview.md#service-tiers)
* [High availability for Azure Cache for Redis](cache-high-availability.md)
