articles/active-directory/saas-apps/sharingcloud-tutorial.md, before:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Azure Active Directory single sign-on (SSO) integration with SharingCloud | Microsoft Docs'
description: Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and Instant Suite.
services: active-directory
author: jeevansd
manager: CelesteDG
ms.reviewer: celested
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: saas-app-tutorial
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 03/10/2021
ms.author: jeedes
---

# Tutorial: Azure Active Directory single sign-on (SSO) integration with SharingCloud

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to integrate SharingCloud with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). When you integrate SharingCloud with Azure AD, you can:

* Control in Azure AD who has access to SharingCloud.
* Enable your users to be automatically signed-in to SharingCloud with their Azure AD accounts.
* Manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure portal.

## Prerequisites

To get started, you need the following items:

* An Azure AD subscription. If you don't have a subscription, you can get a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
* Sapient single sign-on (SSO) enabled subscription.


## Scenario description

In this tutorial, you configure and test Azure AD SSO in a test environment.

* SharingCloud supports **SP and IDP** initiated SSO
* SharingCloud supports **Just In Time** user provisioning

## Adding SharingCloud from the gallery

To configure the integration of SharingCloud into Azure AD, you need to add SharingCloud from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal using either a work or school account, or a personal Microsoft account.
1. On the left navigation pane, select the **Azure Active Directory** service.
1. Navigate to **Enterprise Applications** and then select **All Applications**.
1. To add new application, select **New application**.
1. In the **Add from the gallery** section, type **SharingCloud** in the search box.
1. Select **SharingCloud** from results panel and then add the app. Wait a few seconds while the app is added to your tenant.


## Configure and test Azure AD SSO for SharingCloud

Configure and test Azure AD SSO with SharingCloud using a test user called **B.Simon**. For SSO to work, you need to establish a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in SharingCloud.

To configure and test Azure AD SSO with SharingCloud, perform the following steps:

1. **[Configure Azure AD SSO](#configure-azure-ad-sso)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
    1. **[Create an Azure AD test user](#create-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with B.Simon.
    1. **[Assign the Azure AD test user](#assign-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable B.Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
1. **[Configure SharingCloud SSO](#configure-sharingcloud-sso)** - to configure the single sign-on settings on application side.
    1. **[Create SharingCloud test user](#create-sharingcloud-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of B.Simon in SharingCloud that is linked to the Azure AD representation of user.
1. **[Test SSO](#test-sso)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

## Configure Azure AD SSO

Follow these steps to enable Azure AD SSO in the Azure portal.

1. In the Azure portal, on the **SharingCloud** application integration page, find the **Manage** section and select **single sign-on**.
1. On the **Select a single sign-on method** page, select **SAML**.
1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, click the pencil icon for **Basic SAML Configuration** to edit the settings.

   ![Edit Basic SAML Configuration](common/edit-urls.png)

1. On the **Basic SAML Configuration** section, perform the following steps:

	Upload the metadata file with XML file provided by SharingCloud. Contact the [SharingCloud Client support team](mailto:support@sharingcloud.com) to get the file.

	![Screenshot of the Basic SAML Configuration user interface with the **Upload metadata file** link highlighted.](common/upload-metadata.png)
	
	Select the metadata file provided and click on **Upload**.

	![Screenshot of the metadata file provided user interface, with the select file icon and **Upload** button highlighted.](common/browse-upload-metadata.png)

1. SharingCloud application expects the SAML assertions in a specific format, which requires you to add custom attribute mappings to your SAML token attributes configuration. The following screenshot shows the list of default attributes.

	![Screenshot of the User Attributes user interface with the edit icon highlighted.](common/edit_attribute.png)

1. In addition to above, SharingCloud application expects few more attributes to be passed back in SAML response which are shown below. These attributes are also pre populated but you can review them as per your requirement.

	| Name | Source Attribute|
	| ---------------| --------- |
	| urn:sharingcloud:sso:firstname | user.givenname |
	| urn:sharingcloud:sso:lastname | user.surname |
	| urn:sharingcloud:sso:email | user.mail |

1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, in the **SAML Signing Certificate** section, click on **Copy** icon to copy the **Federation Metadata Url** from the given options as per your requirement.

	![The Metadata URL to copy](common/copy_metadataurl.png)

### Create an Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll create a test user in the Azure portal called B.Simon.

1. From the left pane in the Azure portal, select **Azure Active Directory**, select **Users**, and then select **All users**.
1. Select **New user** at the top of the screen.
1. In the **User** properties, follow these steps:
   1. In the **Name** field, enter `B.Simon`.  
   1. In the **User name** field, enter the username@companydomain.extension. For example, `B.Simon@contoso.com`.
   1. Select the **Show password** check box, and then write down the value that's displayed in the **Password** box.
   1. Click **Create**.

### Assign the Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll enable B.Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting access to SharingCloud.

1. In the Azure portal, select **Enterprise Applications**, and then select **All applications**.
1. In the applications list, select **SharingCloud**.
1. In the app's overview page, find the **Manage** section and select **Users and groups**.
1. Select **Add user**, then select **Users and groups** in the **Add Assignment** dialog.
1. In the **Users and groups** dialog, select **B.Simon** from the Users list, then click the **Select** button at the bottom of the screen.
1. If you are expecting a role to be assigned to the users, you can select it from the **Select a role** dropdown. If no role has been set up for this app, you see "Default Access" role selected.
1. In the **Add Assignment** dialog, click the **Assign** button.

## Configure SharingCloud SSO

To configure single sign-on on **SharingCloud** side, you need to send the copied **Federation Metadata Url** from Azure portal to [SharingCloud support team](mailto:support@sharingcloud.com). They set this setting to have the SAML SSO connection set properly on both sides.

### Create SharingCloud test user

In this section, a user called Britta Simon is created in SharingCloud. SharingCloud supports Just In Time user provisioning, which is enabled by default. There is no action item for you in this section. If a user doesn't already exist in SharingCloud, a new one is created after authentication.

## Test SSO 

In this section, you test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration with following options. 

#### SP initiated:

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal. This will redirect to SharingCloud Sign on URL where you can initiate the login flow.  

* Go to SharingCloud Sign-on URL directly and initiate the login flow from there.

#### IDP initiated:

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal and you should be automatically signed in to the SharingCloud for which you set up the SSO 

You can also use Microsoft My Apps to test the application in any mode. When you click the SharingCloud tile in the My Apps, if configured in SP mode you would be redirected to the application sign on page for initiating the login flow and if configured in IDP mode, you should be automatically signed in to the SharingCloud for which you set up the SSO. For more information about the My Apps, see [Introduction to the My Apps](https://support.microsoft.com/account-billing/sign-in-and-start-apps-from-the-my-apps-portal-2f3b1bae-0e5a-4a86-a33e-876fbd2a4510).


## Next steps

Once you configure SharingCloud you can enforce session control, which protects exfiltration and infiltration of your organization’s sensitive data in real time. Session control extends from Conditional Access. [Learn how to enforce session control with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps](/cloud-app-security/proxy-deployment-any-app).

Commit message:

Product Backlog Item 1913489: SaaS App Tutorial: SharingCloud Update

articles/active-directory/saas-apps/sharingcloud-tutorial.md, after:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Azure AD SSO integration with SharingCloud |'
description: Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and Instant Suite.
services: active-directory
author: jeevansd
manager: CelesteDG
ms.reviewer: celested
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: saas-app-tutorial
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 05/19/2022
ms.author: jeedes
---

# Tutorial: Azure AD SSO integration with SharingCloud

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to integrate SharingCloud with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). When you integrate SharingCloud with Azure AD, you can:

* Control in Azure AD who has access to SharingCloud.
* Enable your users to be automatically signed-in to SharingCloud with their Azure AD accounts.
* Manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure portal.

## Prerequisites

To get started, you need the following items:

* An Azure AD subscription. If you don't have a subscription, you can get a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
* Sapient single sign-on (SSO) enabled subscription.


## Scenario description

In this tutorial, you configure and test Azure AD SSO in a test environment.

* SharingCloud supports **SP and IDP** initiated SSO.
* SharingCloud supports **Just In Time** user provisioning.

## Adding SharingCloud from the gallery

To configure the integration of SharingCloud into Azure AD, you need to add SharingCloud from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal using either a work or school account, or a personal Microsoft account.
1. On the left navigation pane, select the **Azure Active Directory** service.
1. Navigate to **Enterprise Applications** and then select **All Applications**.
1. To add new application, select **New application**.
1. In the **Add from the gallery** section, type **SharingCloud** in the search box.
1. Select **SharingCloud** from results panel and then add the app. Wait a few seconds while the app is added to your tenant.


## Configure and test Azure AD SSO for SharingCloud

Configure and test Azure AD SSO with SharingCloud using a test user called **B.Simon**. For SSO to work, you need to establish a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in SharingCloud.

To configure and test Azure AD SSO with SharingCloud, perform the following steps:

1. **[Configure Azure AD SSO](#configure-azure-ad-sso)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
    1. **[Create an Azure AD test user](#create-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with B.Simon.
    1. **[Assign the Azure AD test user](#assign-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable B.Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
1. **[Configure SharingCloud SSO](#configure-sharingcloud-sso)** - to configure the single sign-on settings on application side.
    1. **[Create SharingCloud test user](#create-sharingcloud-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of B.Simon in SharingCloud that is linked to the Azure AD representation of user.
1. **[Test SSO](#test-sso)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

## Configure Azure AD SSO

Follow these steps to enable Azure AD SSO in the Azure portal.

1. In the Azure portal, on the **SharingCloud** application integration page, find the **Manage** section and select **single sign-on**.
1. On the **Select a single sign-on method** page, select **SAML**.
1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, click the pencil icon for **Basic SAML Configuration** to edit the settings.

   ![Edit Basic SAML Configuration](common/edit-urls.png)

1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, perform the following steps:

    a. In the **Identifier** text box, type a URL using the following pattern:
    `https://auth.sharingcloud.net/auth/realms/<COMPANY_NAME>`

    b. In the **Reply URL** text box, type a URL using the following pattern:
    `https://auth.sharingcloud.net/auth/realms/<COMPANY_NAME>/broker/saml/endpoint`

    c. In the **Sign-on URL** text box, type a URL using the following pattern:
    `https://<SUBDOMAIN>.factset.com/services/saml2/`

    > [!NOTE]
    > These values are not real. Update these values with the actual Identifier, Reply URL and Sign-on URL. Contact the [SharingCloud support team](mailto:support@sharingcloud.com) to get these values. You can also refer to the patterns shown in the **Basic SAML Configuration** section in the Azure portal. 

1. SharingCloud application expects the SAML assertions in a specific format, which requires you to add custom attribute mappings to your SAML token attributes configuration. The following screenshot shows the list of default attributes.

	![Screenshot of the User Attributes user interface with the edit icon highlighted.](common/edit_attribute.png)

1. In addition to above, SharingCloud application expects few more attributes to be passed back in SAML response which are shown below. These attributes are also pre populated but you can review them as per your requirement.

	| Name | Source Attribute|
	| ---------------| --------- |
	| urn:sharingcloud:sso:firstname | user.givenname |
	| urn:sharingcloud:sso:lastname | user.surname |
	| urn:sharingcloud:sso:email | user.mail |

1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, in the **SAML Signing Certificate** section, click on **Copy** icon to copy the **Federation Metadata Url** from the given options as per your requirement.

	![The Metadata URL to copy](common/copy_metadataurl.png)

### Create an Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll create a test user in the Azure portal called B.Simon.

1. From the left pane in the Azure portal, select **Azure Active Directory**, select **Users**, and then select **All users**.
1. Select **New user** at the top of the screen.
1. In the **User** properties, follow these steps:
   1. In the **Name** field, enter `B.Simon`.  
   1. In the **User name** field, enter the username@companydomain.extension. For example, `B.Simon@contoso.com`.
   1. Select the **Show password** check box, and then write down the value that's displayed in the **Password** box.
   1. Click **Create**.

### Assign the Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll enable B.Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting access to SharingCloud.

1. In the Azure portal, select **Enterprise Applications**, and then select **All applications**.
1. In the applications list, select **SharingCloud**.
1. In the app's overview page, find the **Manage** section and select **Users and groups**.
1. Select **Add user**, then select **Users and groups** in the **Add Assignment** dialog.
1. In the **Users and groups** dialog, select **B.Simon** from the Users list, then click the **Select** button at the bottom of the screen.
1. If you are expecting a role to be assigned to the users, you can select it from the **Select a role** dropdown. If no role has been set up for this app, you see "Default Access" role selected.
1. In the **Add Assignment** dialog, click the **Assign** button.

## Configure SharingCloud SSO

To configure single sign-on on **SharingCloud** side, you need to send the copied **Federation Metadata Url** from Azure portal to [SharingCloud support team](mailto:support@sharingcloud.com). They set this setting to have the SAML SSO connection set properly on both sides.

### Create SharingCloud test user

In this section, a user called Britta Simon is created in SharingCloud. SharingCloud supports Just In Time user provisioning, which is enabled by default. There is no action item for you in this section. If a user doesn't already exist in SharingCloud, a new one is created after authentication.

## Test SSO 

In this section, you test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration with following options. 

#### SP initiated:

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal. This will redirect to SharingCloud Sign on URL where you can initiate the login flow.  

* Go to SharingCloud Sign-on URL directly and initiate the login flow from there.

#### IDP initiated:

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal and you should be automatically signed in to the SharingCloud for which you set up the SSO 

You can also use Microsoft My Apps to test the application in any mode. When you click the SharingCloud tile in the My Apps, if configured in SP mode you would be redirected to the application sign on page for initiating the login flow and if configured in IDP mode, you should be automatically signed in to the SharingCloud for which you set up the SSO. For more information about the My Apps, see [Introduction to the My Apps](https://support.microsoft.com/account-billing/sign-in-and-start-apps-from-the-my-apps-portal-2f3b1bae-0e5a-4a86-a33e-876fbd2a4510).


## Next steps

Once you configure SharingCloud you can enforce session control, which protects exfiltration and infiltration of your organization’s sensitive data in real time. Session control extends from Conditional Access. [Learn how to enforce session control with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps](/cloud-app-security/proxy-deployment-any-app).
