# **Developer Service On-boarding Guide**#

###  PRE-REQUISITES

**Pricing Models**


*	Plans can be any combination of BASE + Overage, where BASE is monthly price and Overage is pay-per-use price (see below for more details)

*	Monthly Only
	* Flat monthly rate paid at time of purchase
	* e.g. $10/month
*	Overage (aka Usage or Meter) Based:
	*	Pay per use, which is defined by partner
	* Cannot be set per seat, per user, etc. as there is no concept of a fraction of a user or capability to do proration
	* Usage is reported by Partner on an hourly basis
	* Customer pays at the end of monthly billing cycle (as opposed to up front like monthly plan)
*	Free Trial
	* Customer may use for free for a limited time and then pay normal rates thereafter
*	Free Tier
	* Plan is always free
*	Migration (aka conversion or upgrade/downgrade) of Plan
	* Concept of a user moving from their current plan to another acceptable plan; defined by partner

**Contoso Application Service Offering**

1.	Free Plan
	*	$0/month
	*	Includes basic functionality
	*	Migration: can migrate to any other plan
2.	Bronze Plan
	* $10/month
	* Includes basic functionality and a quota of 1,000 of feature X
	* Migration: can migrate to Bronze Plus, Silver, and Gold Plans.
3.	Bronze Plus Plan
	* Free Trial period
	  * $0/month + $0/meter01
	* Paid period (aka Free Trial expired)
	  * $10/month + $0.05/meter01
	* Includes basic functionality and a quota of 10,000 of feature X.  Once feature X quota is used, the customer can pay per use via meter01.
	* Migration: can migrate to Silver Plus and Gold Plans.
4.	Silver Plan
	* $0.15/meter01
	* The customer can pay-per-use via meter01, which is for feature X.
	* Migration: can migrate to Bronze and Gold Plans.
5.	Silver Plus Plan
	* $20/month + $0.15/meter01 + $0.01/meter02
	* Includes basic functionality and a quota of 10,000 of feature X and 100 of feature Y.  Once feature X quota is used, the customer can pay per use via meter01.  Once feature Y quota is used, the customer can pay per use via meter02.
	* Migration: can migrate to Bronze Plus and Gold Plans.
6.	 Gold Plan
	* $1000/month
	* Includes quota of 10,000 of feature X, 1,000 of feature Y, and unlimited of feature Z.
	* Migration: can migrate to all plans except free.


[<<Back to Pre-Requisites](1.0.Pre-Requisites.md)