---
title: Bing Custom Search endpoint
titlesuffix: Azure Cognitive Services
description: Summary of the Bing Custom Search API endpoint.
services: cognitive-services
author: mikedodaro
manager: cgronlun

ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.component: bing-custom-search
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 12/05/2017
ms.author: v-gedod
---

# Custom Search
Bing Custom Search enables you to create tailored search experiences for topics that you care about. Your users see search results tailored to the content they care about instead of having to page through search results that have irrelevant content.

## Custom Search Endpoint
To get results using the Bing Custom Search API, send a `GET` request to the following endpoint. Use the headers and URL parameters to define further specifications.

Endpoint: Returns search suggestions as JSON results that are relevant to the user's input defined by `?q=""`.
```  
 GET https://api.cognitive.microsoft.com/bingcustomsearch/v7.0/search  
```

For examples that describe how to set up Custom Search sources, see the [tutorial](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cognitive-services/bing-custom-search/tutorials/custom-search-web-page). For details about headers, parameters, market codes, response objects, errors, etc., see the [Bing Custom Search API v7](https://docs.microsoft.com/rest/api/cognitiveservices/bing-custom-search-api-v7-reference) reference.

## Custom Search Response JSON
A custom search request returns results as JSON objects, see [Response objects](https://docs.microsoft.com/rest/api/cognitiveservices/bing-custom-search-api-v7-reference#response-objects). 

## Custom Autosuggest
The Custom Autosuggest API lets you send a partial search query term to Bing and get back a list of suggested queries that you can configure. With Custom Autosuggest, you add suggestions returned by the API and optionally specify whether to include suggestions generated by Bing.

## Custom Autosuggest Endpoint
To request custom query suggestions, send a GET request to:

```
https://api.cognitive.microsoft.com/bingcustomsearch/v7.0/Suggestions
```  

For information about defining custom suggestions, see [Define custom search suggestions](define-custom-suggestions.md).

## Custom Image Search
The Custom Image Search API lets you send a search query to Bing and get back a list of relevant images from your Custom Search instance.

## Custom Image Search Endpoint
To request images from your Custom Search instance, send a GET request to the following URL:

```
https://api.cognitive.microsoft.com/bingcustomsearch/v7.0/images/search
```

For information about configuring a Custom Search instance, see [Configure your custom search experience](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cognitive-services/bing-custom-search/define-your-custom-view).

## Next steps
The **Bing** APIs support search actions that return results according to their type. All search endpoints return results as JSON response objects.  All endpoints support queries that return a specific language and/or location by longitude, latitude, and search radius.

For complete information about the parameters supported by each endpoint, see the reference pages for each type.
For examples of basic requests using the Custom Search API, see [Custom Search Quick-starts](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cognitive-services/bing-custom-search/)