articles/data-factory/data-factory-onprem-oracle-connector.md, before:

<properties 
	pageTitle="Move data from Oracle | Azure Data Factory" 
	description="Learn how to move data to/from Oracle database that is on-premises using Azure Data Factory." 
	services="data-factory" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="spelluru" 
	manager="jhubbard" 
	editor="monicar"/>

<tags 
	ms.service="data-factory" 
	ms.workload="data-services" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="04/18/2016" 
	ms.author="spelluru"/>

# Move data from on-premises Oracle using Azure Data Factory 

This article outlines how you can use data factory copy activity to move data from Oracle to another data store. This article builds on the [data movement activities](data-factory-data-movement-activities.md) article which presents a general overview of data movement with copy activity and supported data store combinations.

## Installation 
For the Azure Data Factory service to be able to connect to your on-premises Oracle database , you must install the following: 

- Data Management Gateway on the same machine that hosts the database or on a separate machine to avoid competing for resources with the database. Data Management Gateway is a software that connects on-premises data sources to cloud services in a secure and managed way. See [Move data between on-premises and cloud](data-factory-move-data-between-onprem-and-cloud.md) article for details about Data Management Gateway. 
- Oracle Data Provider for .NET. This is included in [Oracle Data Access Components for Windows](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/dotnet/downloads/index.html). Install the appropriate version (32/64 bit) on the host machine where the gateway is installed. 

> [AZURE.NOTE] See [Gateway Troubleshooting](data-factory-move-data-between-onprem-and-cloud.md#gateway-troubleshooting) for tips on troubleshooting connection/gateway related issues. 

## Sample: Copy data from Oracle to Azure Blob
This sample shows how to copy data from an on-premises Oracle database to an Azure Blob Storage. However, data can be copied **directly** to any of the sinks stated [here](data-factory-data-movement-activities.md#supported-data-stores) using the Copy Activity in Azure Data Factory.  
 
The sample has the following data factory entities:

1.	A linked service of type [OnPremisesOracle](data-factory-onprem-oracle-connector.md#oracle-linked-service-properties).
2.	A linked service of type [AzureStorage](data-factory-azure-blob-connector.md#azure-storage-linked-service-properties).
3.	An input [dataset](data-factory-create-datasets.md) of type [OracleTable](data-factory-onprem-oracle-connector.md#oracle-dataset-type-properties). 
4.	An output [dataset](data-factory-create-datasets.md) of type [AzureBlob](data-factory-azure-blob-connector.md#azure-blob-dataset-type-properties).
5.	A [pipeline](data-factory-create-pipelines.md) with Copy activity that uses [OracleSource](data-factory-onprem-oracle-connector.md#oracle-copy-activity-type-properties) as source and [BlobSink](data-factory-azure-blob-connector.md#azure-blob-copy-activity-type-properties) as sink.

The sample copies data from a table in an on-premises Oracle database to a blob every hour. For more information on various properties used in the sample below please refer to documentation on different properties in the sections following the samples.

**Oracle linked service:**

	{
	  "name": "OnPremisesOracleLinkedService",
	  "properties": {
	    "type": "OnPremisesOracle",
	    "typeProperties": {
	      "ConnectionString": "data source=<data source>;User Id=<User Id>;Password=<Password>;",
	      "gatewayName": "<gateway name>"
	    }
	  }
	}

**Azure Blob storage linked service:**

	{
	  "name": "StorageLinkedService",
	  "properties": {
	    "type": "AzureStorage",
	    "typeProperties": {
	      "connectionString": "DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;AccountName=<account name>;AccountKey=<Account key>"
	    }
	  }
	}

**Oracle input dataset:**

The sample assumes you have created a table “MyTable” in Oracle and it contains a column called “timestampcolumn” for time series data. 

Setting “external”: ”true” and specifying externalData policy tells data factory that this is a table that is external to the data factory and not produced by an activity in the data factory.

	{
	    "name": "OracleInput",
	    "properties": {
	        "type": "OracleTable",
	        "linkedServiceName": "OnPremisesOracleLinkedService",
	        "typeProperties": {
	            "tableName": "MyTable"
	        },
	           "external": true,
	        "availability": {
	            "offset": "01:00:00",
	            "interval": "1",
	            "anchorDateTime": "2014-02-27T12:00:00",
	            "frequency": "Hour"
	        },
	      "policy": {     
	           "externalData": {        
	                "retryInterval": "00:01:00",    
	                "retryTimeout": "00:10:00",       
	                "maximumRetry": 3       
	            }     
	          }
	    }
	}


**Azure Blob output dataset:**

Data is written to a new blob every hour (frequency: hour, interval: 1). The folder path and file name for the blob are dynamically evaluated based on the start time of the slice that is being processed. The folder path uses year, month, day, and hours parts of the start time.
	
	{
	  "name": "AzureBlobOutput",
	  "properties": {
	    "type": "AzureBlob",
	    "linkedServiceName": "StorageLinkedService",
	    "typeProperties": {
	      "folderPath": "mycontainer/myfolder/yearno={Year}/monthno={Month}/dayno={Day}/hourno={Hour}",
	      "partitionedBy": [
	        {
	          "name": "Year",
	          "value": {
	            "type": "DateTime",
	            "date": "SliceStart",
	            "format": "yyyy"
	          }
	        },
	        {
	          "name": "Month",
	          "value": {
	            "type": "DateTime",
	            "date": "SliceStart",
	            "format": "%M"
	          }
	        },
	        {
	          "name": "Day",
	          "value": {
	            "type": "DateTime",
	            "date": "SliceStart",
	            "format": "%d"
	          }
	        },
	        {
	          "name": "Hour",
	          "value": {
	            "type": "DateTime",
	            "date": "SliceStart",
	            "format": "%H"
	          }
	        }
	      ],
	      "format": {
	        "type": "TextFormat",
	        "columnDelimiter": "\t",
	        "rowDelimiter": "\n"
	      }
	    },
	    "availability": {
	      "frequency": "Hour",
	      "interval": 1
	    }
	  }
	}


**Pipeline with Copy activity:**

The pipeline contains a Copy Activity that is configured to use the above input and output datasets and is scheduled to run every hour. In the pipeline JSON definition, the **source** type is set to **RelationalSource** and **sink** type is set to **BlobSink**.  The SQL query specified with **oracleReaderQuery** property selects the data in the past hour to copy.

	
	{  
	    "name":"SamplePipeline",
	    "properties":{  
	    "start":"2014-06-01T18:00:00",
	    "end":"2014-06-01T19:00:00",
	    "description":"pipeline for copy activity",
	    "activities":[  
	      {
	        "name": "AzureSQLtoBlob",
	        "description": "copy activity",
	        "type": "Copy",
	        "inputs": [
	          {
	            "name": " OracleInput"
	          }
	        ],
	        "outputs": [
	          {
	            "name": "AzureBlobOutput"
	          }
	        ],
	        "typeProperties": {
	          "source": {
	            "type": "OracleSource",
	            "oracleReaderQuery": "$$Text.Format('select * from MyTable where timestampcolumn >= \\'{0:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm}\\' AND timestampcolumn < \\'{1:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm}\\'', WindowStart, WindowEnd)"
	          },
	          "sink": {
	            "type": "BlobSink"
	          }
	        },
	       "scheduler": {
	          "frequency": "Hour",
	          "interval": 1
	        },
	        "policy": {
	          "concurrency": 1,
	          "executionPriorityOrder": "OldestFirst",
	          "retry": 0,
	          "timeout": "01:00:00"
	        }
	      }
	     ]
	   }
	}


You will need to adjust the query string based on how dates are configured in your Oracle database. If you see the following error message: 

	Message=Operation failed in Oracle Database with the following error: 'ORA-01861: literal does not match format string'.,Source=,''Type=Oracle.DataAccess.Client.OracleException,Message=ORA-01861: literal does not match format string,Source=Oracle Data Provider for .NET,'.

you may need to change the query as shown below (using the to_date function):

	"oracleReaderQuery": "$$Text.Format('select * from MyTable where timestampcolumn >= to_date(\\'{0:MM-dd-yyyy HH:mm}\\',\\'MM/DD/YYYY HH24:MI\\')  AND timestampcolumn < to_date(\\'{1:MM-dd-yyyy HH:mm}\\',\\'MM/DD/YYYY HH24:MI\\') ', WindowStart, WindowEnd)"


## Oracle linked service properties

The following table provides description for JSON elements specific to Oracle linked service. 

Property | Description | Required
-------- | ----------- | --------
type | The type property must be set to: **OnPremisesOracle** | Yes
connectionString | Specify information needed to connect to the Oracle Database instance for the connectionString property. | Yes 
gatewayName | Name of the gateway that will be used to connect to the onpremises Oracle server | Yes

See [Setting Credentials and Security](data-factory-move-data-between-onprem-and-cloud.md#set-credentials-and-security) for details about setting credentials for an on-premises Oracle data source.
## Oracle dataset type properties

For a full list of sections & properties available for defining datasets please refer to the [Creating datasets](data-factory-create-datasets.md) article. Sections like structure, availability, and policy of a dataset JSON are similar for all dataset types (Oracle, Azure blob, Azure table, etc...).
 
The typeProperties section is different for each type of dataset and provides information about the location of the data in the data store. The typeProperties section for the dataset of type OracleTable has the following properties.

Property | Description | Required
-------- | ----------- | --------
tableName | Name of the table in the Oracle Database that the linked service refers to. | No (if **oracleReaderQuery** of **SqlSource** is specified)

## Oracle copy activity type properties

For a full list of sections & properties available for defining activities please refer to the [Creating Pipelines](data-factory-create-pipelines.md) article. Properties like name, description, input and output tables, various policies etc are available for all types of activities. 

**Note:** The Copy Activity takes only one input and produces only one output.

Properties available in the typeProperties section of the activity on the other hand vary with each activity type and in case of Copy activity they vary depending on the types of sources and sinks.

In case of Copy activity when source is of type **OracleSource** the following properties are available in **typeProperties** section:

Property | Description |Allowed values | Required
-------- | ----------- | ------------- | --------
oracleReaderQuery | Use the custom query to read data. | SQL query string. 
For example: select * from MyTable <br/><br/>If not specified, the SQL statement that is executed: select * from MyTable | No (if **tableName** of **dataset** is specified)

[AZURE.INCLUDE [data-factory-structure-for-rectangualr-datasets](../../includes/data-factory-structure-for-rectangualr-datasets.md)]

### Type mapping for Oracle

As mentioned in the [data movement activities](data-factory-data-movement-activities.md) article Copy activity performs automatic type conversions from automatic type conversions from source types to sink types with the following 2 step approach:

1. Convert from native source types to .NET type
2. Convert from .NET type to native sink type

When moving data from Oracle, the following mappings will be used from Oracle data type to .NET type and vice versa.

Oracle data type | .NET Framework data type
---------------- | ------------------------
BFILE | Byte[]
BLOB | Byte[]
CHAR | String
CLOB | String
DATE | DateTime
FLOAT | Decimal
INTEGER | Decimal
INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH | Int32
INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND | TimeSpan
LONG | String
LONG RAW | Byte[]
NCHAR | String
NCLOB | String
NUMBER | Decimal
NVARCHAR2 | String
RAW | Byte[]
ROWID | String
TIMESTAMP | DateTime
TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE | DateTime
TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE | DateTime
UNSIGNED INTEGER | Number
VARCHAR2 | String
XML | String

## Troubleshooting tips

**Problem: **
You see the following **error message**: Copy activity met invalid parameters: 'UnknownParameterName', Detailed message: Unable to find the requested .Net Framework Data Provider. It may not be installed”.  

**Possible causes**

1. The .NET Framework Data Provider for Oracle was not installed.
2. The .NET Framework Data Provider for Oracle was installed to .NET Framework 2.0 and is not found in the .NET Framework 4.0 folders. 

**Resolution/Workaround**

1. If you haven't installed the .NET Provider for Oracle, please [install it]((http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/dotnet/downloads/index.html)) and retry the scenario. 
2. If you get the error message even after installing the provider, do the following: 
	1. Open machine config of .NET 2.0 from the folder: <system disk>:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework64\v2.0.50727\CONFIG\machine.config.
	2. Search for **Oracle Data Provider for .NET**, and you should be able to find an entry like below under **system.data** -> **DbProviderFactories**:
			“<add name="Oracle Data Provider for .NET" invariant="Oracle.DataAccess.Client" description="Oracle Data Provider for .NET" type="Oracle.DataAccess.Client.OracleClientFactory, Oracle.DataAccess, Version=2.112.3.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=89b483f429c47342" />”
2.	Copy this entry to the machine.config file in the following v4.0 folder: <system disk>:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework64\v4.0.30319\Config\machine.config, and change the version to 4.xxx.x.x.
3.	Install “<ODP.NET Installed Path>\11.2.0\client_1\odp.net\bin\4\Oracle.DataAccess.dll” into the global assembly cache (GAC) by running “gacutil /i [provider path]”.



[AZURE.INCLUDE [data-factory-column-mapping](../../includes/data-factory-column-mapping.md)]


## Performance and Tuning  
See [Copy Activity Performance & Tuning Guide](data-factory-copy-activity-performance.md) to learn about key factors that impact performance of data movement (Copy Activity) in Azure Data Factory and various ways to optimize it.

Commit message:

odp 12.1 can access Oracle 10g R2 or later

articles/data-factory/data-factory-onprem-oracle-connector.md, after:

<properties 
	pageTitle="Move data from Oracle | Azure Data Factory" 
	description="Learn how to move data to/from Oracle database that is on-premises using Azure Data Factory." 
	services="data-factory" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="spelluru" 
	manager="jhubbard" 
	editor="monicar"/>

<tags 
	ms.service="data-factory" 
	ms.workload="data-services" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="04/18/2016" 
	ms.author="spelluru"/>

# Move data from on-premises Oracle using Azure Data Factory 

This article outlines how you can use data factory copy activity to move data from Oracle to another data store. This article builds on the [data movement activities](data-factory-data-movement-activities.md) article which presents a general overview of data movement with copy activity and supported data store combinations.

## Installation 
For the Azure Data Factory service to be able to connect to your on-premises Oracle database , you must install the following: 

- Data Management Gateway on the same machine that hosts the database or on a separate machine to avoid competing for resources with the database. Data Management Gateway is a software that connects on-premises data sources to cloud services in a secure and managed way. See [Move data between on-premises and cloud](data-factory-move-data-between-onprem-and-cloud.md) article for details about Data Management Gateway. 
- Oracle Data Provider for .NET. This is included in [Oracle Data Access Components for Windows](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/dotnet/downloads/index.html). Install the appropriate version (32/64 bit) on the host machine where the gateway is installed. [Oracle Data Provider .NET 12.1](http://docs.oracle.com/database/121/ODPNT/InstallSystemRequirements.htm#ODPNT149) can access to Oracle Database 10g Release 2 or later.

> [AZURE.NOTE] See [Gateway Troubleshooting](data-factory-move-data-between-onprem-and-cloud.md#gateway-troubleshooting) for tips on troubleshooting connection/gateway related issues. 

## Sample: Copy data from Oracle to Azure Blob
This sample shows how to copy data from an on-premises Oracle database to an Azure Blob Storage. However, data can be copied **directly** to any of the sinks stated [here](data-factory-data-movement-activities.md#supported-data-stores) using the Copy Activity in Azure Data Factory.  
 
The sample has the following data factory entities:

1.	A linked service of type [OnPremisesOracle](data-factory-onprem-oracle-connector.md#oracle-linked-service-properties).
2.	A linked service of type [AzureStorage](data-factory-azure-blob-connector.md#azure-storage-linked-service-properties).
3.	An input [dataset](data-factory-create-datasets.md) of type [OracleTable](data-factory-onprem-oracle-connector.md#oracle-dataset-type-properties). 
4.	An output [dataset](data-factory-create-datasets.md) of type [AzureBlob](data-factory-azure-blob-connector.md#azure-blob-dataset-type-properties).
5.	A [pipeline](data-factory-create-pipelines.md) with Copy activity that uses [OracleSource](data-factory-onprem-oracle-connector.md#oracle-copy-activity-type-properties) as source and [BlobSink](data-factory-azure-blob-connector.md#azure-blob-copy-activity-type-properties) as sink.

The sample copies data from a table in an on-premises Oracle database to a blob every hour. For more information on various properties used in the sample below please refer to documentation on different properties in the sections following the samples.

**Oracle linked service:**

	{
	  "name": "OnPremisesOracleLinkedService",
	  "properties": {
	    "type": "OnPremisesOracle",
	    "typeProperties": {
	      "ConnectionString": "data source=<data source>;User Id=<User Id>;Password=<Password>;",
	      "gatewayName": "<gateway name>"
	    }
	  }
	}

**Azure Blob storage linked service:**

	{
	  "name": "StorageLinkedService",
	  "properties": {
	    "type": "AzureStorage",
	    "typeProperties": {
	      "connectionString": "DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;AccountName=<account name>;AccountKey=<Account key>"
	    }
	  }
	}

**Oracle input dataset:**

The sample assumes you have created a table “MyTable” in Oracle and it contains a column called “timestampcolumn” for time series data. 

Setting “external”: ”true” and specifying externalData policy tells data factory that this is a table that is external to the data factory and not produced by an activity in the data factory.

	{
	    "name": "OracleInput",
	    "properties": {
	        "type": "OracleTable",
	        "linkedServiceName": "OnPremisesOracleLinkedService",
	        "typeProperties": {
	            "tableName": "MyTable"
	        },
	           "external": true,
	        "availability": {
	            "offset": "01:00:00",
	            "interval": "1",
	            "anchorDateTime": "2014-02-27T12:00:00",
	            "frequency": "Hour"
	        },
	      "policy": {     
	           "externalData": {        
	                "retryInterval": "00:01:00",    
	                "retryTimeout": "00:10:00",       
	                "maximumRetry": 3       
	            }     
	          }
	    }
	}


**Azure Blob output dataset:**

Data is written to a new blob every hour (frequency: hour, interval: 1). The folder path and file name for the blob are dynamically evaluated based on the start time of the slice that is being processed. The folder path uses year, month, day, and hours parts of the start time.
	
	{
	  "name": "AzureBlobOutput",
	  "properties": {
	    "type": "AzureBlob",
	    "linkedServiceName": "StorageLinkedService",
	    "typeProperties": {
	      "folderPath": "mycontainer/myfolder/yearno={Year}/monthno={Month}/dayno={Day}/hourno={Hour}",
	      "partitionedBy": [
	        {
	          "name": "Year",
	          "value": {
	            "type": "DateTime",
	            "date": "SliceStart",
	            "format": "yyyy"
	          }
	        },
	        {
	          "name": "Month",
	          "value": {
	            "type": "DateTime",
	            "date": "SliceStart",
	            "format": "%M"
	          }
	        },
	        {
	          "name": "Day",
	          "value": {
	            "type": "DateTime",
	            "date": "SliceStart",
	            "format": "%d"
	          }
	        },
	        {
	          "name": "Hour",
	          "value": {
	            "type": "DateTime",
	            "date": "SliceStart",
	            "format": "%H"
	          }
	        }
	      ],
	      "format": {
	        "type": "TextFormat",
	        "columnDelimiter": "\t",
	        "rowDelimiter": "\n"
	      }
	    },
	    "availability": {
	      "frequency": "Hour",
	      "interval": 1
	    }
	  }
	}


**Pipeline with Copy activity:**

The pipeline contains a Copy Activity that is configured to use the above input and output datasets and is scheduled to run every hour. In the pipeline JSON definition, the **source** type is set to **RelationalSource** and **sink** type is set to **BlobSink**.  The SQL query specified with **oracleReaderQuery** property selects the data in the past hour to copy.

	
	{  
	    "name":"SamplePipeline",
	    "properties":{  
	    "start":"2014-06-01T18:00:00",
	    "end":"2014-06-01T19:00:00",
	    "description":"pipeline for copy activity",
	    "activities":[  
	      {
	        "name": "AzureSQLtoBlob",
	        "description": "copy activity",
	        "type": "Copy",
	        "inputs": [
	          {
	            "name": " OracleInput"
	          }
	        ],
	        "outputs": [
	          {
	            "name": "AzureBlobOutput"
	          }
	        ],
	        "typeProperties": {
	          "source": {
	            "type": "OracleSource",
	            "oracleReaderQuery": "$$Text.Format('select * from MyTable where timestampcolumn >= \\'{0:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm}\\' AND timestampcolumn < \\'{1:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm}\\'', WindowStart, WindowEnd)"
	          },
	          "sink": {
	            "type": "BlobSink"
	          }
	        },
	       "scheduler": {
	          "frequency": "Hour",
	          "interval": 1
	        },
	        "policy": {
	          "concurrency": 1,
	          "executionPriorityOrder": "OldestFirst",
	          "retry": 0,
	          "timeout": "01:00:00"
	        }
	      }
	     ]
	   }
	}


You will need to adjust the query string based on how dates are configured in your Oracle database. If you see the following error message: 

	Message=Operation failed in Oracle Database with the following error: 'ORA-01861: literal does not match format string'.,Source=,''Type=Oracle.DataAccess.Client.OracleException,Message=ORA-01861: literal does not match format string,Source=Oracle Data Provider for .NET,'.

you may need to change the query as shown below (using the to_date function):

	"oracleReaderQuery": "$$Text.Format('select * from MyTable where timestampcolumn >= to_date(\\'{0:MM-dd-yyyy HH:mm}\\',\\'MM/DD/YYYY HH24:MI\\')  AND timestampcolumn < to_date(\\'{1:MM-dd-yyyy HH:mm}\\',\\'MM/DD/YYYY HH24:MI\\') ', WindowStart, WindowEnd)"


## Oracle linked service properties

The following table provides description for JSON elements specific to Oracle linked service. 

Property | Description | Required
-------- | ----------- | --------
type | The type property must be set to: **OnPremisesOracle** | Yes
connectionString | Specify information needed to connect to the Oracle Database instance for the connectionString property. | Yes 
gatewayName | Name of the gateway that will be used to connect to the onpremises Oracle server | Yes

See [Setting Credentials and Security](data-factory-move-data-between-onprem-and-cloud.md#set-credentials-and-security) for details about setting credentials for an on-premises Oracle data source.
## Oracle dataset type properties

For a full list of sections & properties available for defining datasets please refer to the [Creating datasets](data-factory-create-datasets.md) article. Sections like structure, availability, and policy of a dataset JSON are similar for all dataset types (Oracle, Azure blob, Azure table, etc...).
 
The typeProperties section is different for each type of dataset and provides information about the location of the data in the data store. The typeProperties section for the dataset of type OracleTable has the following properties.

Property | Description | Required
-------- | ----------- | --------
tableName | Name of the table in the Oracle Database that the linked service refers to. | No (if **oracleReaderQuery** of **SqlSource** is specified)

## Oracle copy activity type properties

For a full list of sections & properties available for defining activities please refer to the [Creating Pipelines](data-factory-create-pipelines.md) article. Properties like name, description, input and output tables, various policies etc are available for all types of activities. 

**Note:** The Copy Activity takes only one input and produces only one output.

Properties available in the typeProperties section of the activity on the other hand vary with each activity type and in case of Copy activity they vary depending on the types of sources and sinks.

In case of Copy activity when source is of type **OracleSource** the following properties are available in **typeProperties** section:

Property | Description |Allowed values | Required
-------- | ----------- | ------------- | --------
oracleReaderQuery | Use the custom query to read data. | SQL query string. 
For example: select * from MyTable <br/><br/>If not specified, the SQL statement that is executed: select * from MyTable | No (if **tableName** of **dataset** is specified)

[AZURE.INCLUDE [data-factory-structure-for-rectangualr-datasets](../../includes/data-factory-structure-for-rectangualr-datasets.md)]

### Type mapping for Oracle

As mentioned in the [data movement activities](data-factory-data-movement-activities.md) article Copy activity performs automatic type conversions from automatic type conversions from source types to sink types with the following 2 step approach:

1. Convert from native source types to .NET type
2. Convert from .NET type to native sink type

When moving data from Oracle, the following mappings will be used from Oracle data type to .NET type and vice versa.

Oracle data type | .NET Framework data type
---------------- | ------------------------
BFILE | Byte[]
BLOB | Byte[]
CHAR | String
CLOB | String
DATE | DateTime
FLOAT | Decimal
INTEGER | Decimal
INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH | Int32
INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND | TimeSpan
LONG | String
LONG RAW | Byte[]
NCHAR | String
NCLOB | String
NUMBER | Decimal
NVARCHAR2 | String
RAW | Byte[]
ROWID | String
TIMESTAMP | DateTime
TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE | DateTime
TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE | DateTime
UNSIGNED INTEGER | Number
VARCHAR2 | String
XML | String

## Troubleshooting tips

**Problem: **
You see the following **error message**: Copy activity met invalid parameters: 'UnknownParameterName', Detailed message: Unable to find the requested .Net Framework Data Provider. It may not be installed”.  

**Possible causes**

1. The .NET Framework Data Provider for Oracle was not installed.
2. The .NET Framework Data Provider for Oracle was installed to .NET Framework 2.0 and is not found in the .NET Framework 4.0 folders. 

**Resolution/Workaround**

1. If you haven't installed the .NET Provider for Oracle, please [install it]((http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/dotnet/downloads/index.html)) and retry the scenario. 
2. If you get the error message even after installing the provider, do the following: 
	1. Open machine config of .NET 2.0 from the folder: <system disk>:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework64\v2.0.50727\CONFIG\machine.config.
	2. Search for **Oracle Data Provider for .NET**, and you should be able to find an entry like below under **system.data** -> **DbProviderFactories**:
			“<add name="Oracle Data Provider for .NET" invariant="Oracle.DataAccess.Client" description="Oracle Data Provider for .NET" type="Oracle.DataAccess.Client.OracleClientFactory, Oracle.DataAccess, Version=2.112.3.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=89b483f429c47342" />”
2.	Copy this entry to the machine.config file in the following v4.0 folder: <system disk>:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework64\v4.0.30319\Config\machine.config, and change the version to 4.xxx.x.x.
3.	Install “<ODP.NET Installed Path>\11.2.0\client_1\odp.net\bin\4\Oracle.DataAccess.dll” into the global assembly cache (GAC) by running “gacutil /i [provider path]”.



[AZURE.INCLUDE [data-factory-column-mapping](../../includes/data-factory-column-mapping.md)]


## Performance and Tuning  
See [Copy Activity Performance & Tuning Guide](data-factory-copy-activity-performance.md) to learn about key factors that impact performance of data movement (Copy Activity) in Azure Data Factory and various ways to optimize it.
