<properties 
	pageTitle="Run U-SQL script on Azure Data Lake Analytics from Azure Data Factory" 
	description="Learn how to process data by running U-SQL scripts on Azure Data Lake Analytics compute service." 
	services="data-factory" 
	documentationCenter="" 
	authors="spelluru" 
	manager="jhubbard" 
	editor="monicar"/>

<tags 
	ms.service="data-factory" 
	ms.workload="data-services" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="06/27/2016" 
	ms.author="spelluru"/>

# Run U-SQL script on Azure Data Lake Analytics from Azure Data Factory 
A pipeline in an Azure data factory processes data in linked storage services by using linked compute services. It contains a sequence of activities where each activity performs a specific processing operation. This article describes the **Data Lake Analytics U-SQL Activity** that runs a  **U-SQL** script on an **Azure Data Lake Analytics** compute linked service. 

> [AZURE.NOTE] 
> You must create an Azure Data Lake Analytics account before creating a pipeline with a Data Lake Analytics U-SQL Activity. To learn about Azure Data Lake Analytics, please see [Get started with Azure Data Lake Analytics](../data-lake-analytics/data-lake-analytics-get-started-portal.md).
>  
> Please review the [Build your first pipeline tutorial](data-factory-build-your-first-pipeline.md) for detailed steps to create a data factory, linked services, datasets, and a pipeline. Use the JSON snippets with Data Factory Editor or Visual Studio or Azure PowerShell to create the Data Factory entities.

## Azure Data Lake Analytics Linked Service
You create an **Azure Data Lake Analytics** linked service to link an Azure Data Lake Analytics compute service to an Azure data factory before using the Data Lake Analytics U-SQL activity in a pipeline. 

The following example provides JSON definition for an Azure Data Lake Analytics linked service. 

	{
	    "name": "AzureDataLakeAnalyticsLinkedService",
	    "properties": {
	        "type": "AzureDataLakeAnalytics",
	        "typeProperties": {
	            "accountName": "adftestaccount",
	            "dataLakeAnalyticsUri": "datalakeanalyticscompute.net",
	            "authorization": "<authcode>",
				"sessionId": "<session ID>", 
	            "subscriptionId": "<subscription id>",
	            "resourceGroupName": "<resource group name>"
	        }
	    }
	}


The following table provides descriptions for the properties used in the JSON definition. 

Property | Description | Required
-------- | ----------- | --------
Type | The type property should be set to: **AzureDataLakeAnalytics**. | Yes
accountName | Azure Data Lake Analytics Account Name. | Yes
dataLakeAnalyticsUri | Azure Data Lake Analytics URI. |  No 
authorization | Authorization code is automatically retrieved after clicking **Authorize** button in the Data Factory Editor and completing the OAuth login.  | Yes 
subscriptionId | Azure subscription id | No (If not specified, subscription of the data factory is used). 
resourceGroupName | Azure resource group name |  No (If not specified, resource group of the data factory is used).
sessionId | session id from the OAuth authorization session. Each session id is unique and may only be used once. This is auto-generated in the Data Factory Editor. | Yes

The authorization code you generated by using the **Authorize** button expires after sometime. See the following table for the expiration times for different types of user accounts. You may see the following error message when the authentication **token expires**: Credential operation error: invalid_grant - AADSTS70002: Error validating credentials. AADSTS70008: The provided access grant is expired or revoked. Trace ID: d18629e8-af88-43c5-88e3-d8419eb1fca1 Correlation ID: fac30a0c-6be6-4e02-8d69-a776d2ffefd7 Timestamp: 2015-12-15 21:09:31Z

 
| User type | Expires after |
| :-------- | :----------- | 
| User accounts NOT managed by Azure Active Directory (@hotmail.com, @live.com, etc.) | 12 hours |
| Users accounts managed by Azure Active Directory (AAD) | 14 days after the last slice run. <br/><br/>90 days, if a slice based on OAuth-based linked service runs at least once every 14 days. |

To avoid/resolve this error, you will need to reauthorize using the **Authorize** button when the **token expires** and redeploy the linked service. You can also generate values for **sessionId** and **authorization** properties programmatically using code in the following section. 

  
### To programmatically generate sessionId and authorization values 

    if (linkedService.Properties.TypeProperties is AzureDataLakeStoreLinkedService ||
        linkedService.Properties.TypeProperties is AzureDataLakeAnalyticsLinkedService)
    {
        AuthorizationSessionGetResponse authorizationSession = this.Client.OAuth.Get(this.ResourceGroupName, this.DataFactoryName, linkedService.Properties.Type);

        WindowsFormsWebAuthenticationDialog authenticationDialog = new WindowsFormsWebAuthenticationDialog(null);
        string authorization = authenticationDialog.AuthenticateAAD(authorizationSession.AuthorizationSession.Endpoint, new Uri("urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob"));

        AzureDataLakeStoreLinkedService azureDataLakeStoreProperties = linkedService.Properties.TypeProperties as AzureDataLakeStoreLinkedService;
        if (azureDataLakeStoreProperties != null)
        {
            azureDataLakeStoreProperties.SessionId = authorizationSession.AuthorizationSession.SessionId;
            azureDataLakeStoreProperties.Authorization = authorization;
        }

        AzureDataLakeAnalyticsLinkedService azureDataLakeAnalyticsProperties = linkedService.Properties.TypeProperties as AzureDataLakeAnalyticsLinkedService;
        if (azureDataLakeAnalyticsProperties != null)
        {
            azureDataLakeAnalyticsProperties.SessionId = authorizationSession.AuthorizationSession.SessionId;
            azureDataLakeAnalyticsProperties.Authorization = authorization;
        }
    }

See [AzureDataLakeStoreLinkedService Class](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/microsoft.azure.management.datafactories.models.azuredatalakestorelinkedservice.aspx), [AzureDataLakeAnalyticsLinkedService Class](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/microsoft.azure.management.datafactories.models.azuredatalakeanalyticslinkedservice.aspx), and [AuthorizationSessionGetResponse Class](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/microsoft.azure.management.datafactories.models.authorizationsessiongetresponse.aspx) topics for details about the Data Factory classes used in the code. You need to add a reference to: Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.WindowsForms.dll for the WindowsFormsWebAuthenticationDialog class. 
 
 
## Data Lake Analytics U-SQL Activity 

The following JSON snippet defines a pipeline with a Data Lake Analytics U-SQL Activity. The activity definition has a reference to the Azure Data Lake Analytics linked service you created earlier.   
  

	{
    	"name": "ComputeEventsByRegionPipeline",
    	"properties": {
        	"description": "This is a pipeline to compute events for en-gb locale and date less than 2012/02/19.",
        	"activities": 
			[
            	{
            	    "type": "DataLakeAnalyticsU-SQL",
                	"typeProperties": {
                    	"scriptPath": "scripts\\kona\\SearchLogProcessing.txt",
	                    "scriptLinkedService": "StorageLinkedService",
    	                "degreeOfParallelism": 3,
    	                "priority": 100,
    	                "parameters": {
    	                    "in": "/datalake/input/SearchLog.tsv",
    	                    "out": "/datalake/output/Result.tsv"
    	                }
    	            },
    	            "inputs": [
	    				{
	                        "name": "DataLakeTable"
	                    }
	                ],
	                "outputs": 
					[
	                    {
                    	    "name": "EventsByRegionTable"
                    	}
                	],
                	"policy": {
                    	"timeout": "06:00:00",
	                    "concurrency": 1,
    	                "executionPriorityOrder": "NewestFirst",
    	                "retry": 1
    	            },
    	            "scheduler": {
    	                "frequency": "Day",
    	                "interval": 1
    	            },
    	            "name": "EventsByRegion",
    	            "linkedServiceName": "AzureDataLakeAnalyticsLinkedService"
    	        }
    	    ],
    	    "start": "2015-08-08T00:00:00Z",
    	    "end": "2015-08-08T01:00:00Z",
    	    "isPaused": false
    	}
	}


The following table describes names and descriptions of properties that are specific to this activity. 

Property | Description | Required
:-------- | :----------- | :--------
type | The type property must be set to **DataLakeAnalyticsU-SQL**. | Yes
scriptPath | Path to folder that contains the U-SQL script. Note that name of the file is case-sensitive. | No (if you use script)
scriptLinkedService | Linked service that links the storage that contains the script to the data factory | No (if you use script)
script | Specifiy inline script instread of specifying scriptPath and scriptLinkedService. For example: "script" : "CREATE DATABASE test". | No (if you use scriptPath and scriptLinkedService)
degreeOfParallelism | The maximum number of nodes that will be used simultaneously to run the job. | No
priority | Determines which jobs out of all that are queued should be selected to run first. The lower the number, the higher the priority. | No 
parameters | Parameters for the U-SQL script | No 

See [SearchLogProcessing.txt Script Definition](#script-definition) for the script definition. 

### Sample input and output datasets

#### Input dataset
In this example, the input data resides in an Azure Data Lake Store (SearchLog.tsv file in the datalake/input folder). 

	{
    	"name": "DataLakeTable",
	    "properties": {
	        "type": "AzureDataLakeStore",
    	    "linkedServiceName": "AzureDataLakeStoreLinkedService",
    	    "typeProperties": {
    	        "folderPath": "datalake/input/",
    	        "fileName": "SearchLog.tsv",
    	        "format": {
    	            "type": "TextFormat",
    	            "rowDelimiter": "\n",
    	            "columnDelimiter": "\t"
    	        }
    	    },
    	    "availability": {
    	        "frequency": "Day",
    	        "interval": 1
    	    }
    	}
	}	

#### Output dataset
In this example, the output data produced by the U-SQL script is stored in an Azure Data Lake Store (datalake/output folder). 

	{
	    "name": "EventsByRegionTable",
	    "properties": {
	        "type": "AzureDataLakeStore",
	        "linkedServiceName": "AzureDataLakeStoreLinkedService",
	        "typeProperties": {
	            "folderPath": "datalake/output/"
	        },
	        "availability": {
	            "frequency": "Day",
	            "interval": 1
	        }
	    }
	}

#### Sample Azure Data Lake Store Linked Service
Here is the definition of the sample Azure Data Lake Store linked service used by the above input/output datasets. 

	{
	    "name": "AzureDataLakeStoreLinkedService",
	    "properties": {
	        "type": "AzureDataLakeStore",
	        "typeProperties": {
	            "dataLakeUri": "https://<accountname>.azuredatalakestore.net/webhdfs/v1",
				"sessionId": "<session ID>",
	            "authorization": "<authorization URL>"
	        }
	    }
	}

See [Move data to and from Azure Data Lake Store](data-factory-azure-datalake-connector.md) for descriptions of JSON properties in the above Azure Data Lake Store linked service and data set JSON snippets. 

### Script Definition

	@searchlog =
	    EXTRACT UserId          int,
	            Start           DateTime,
	            Region          string,
	            Query           string,
	            Duration        int?,
	            Urls            string,
	            ClickedUrls     string
	    FROM @in
	    USING Extractors.Tsv(nullEscape:"#NULL#");
	
	@rs1 =
	    SELECT Start, Region, Duration
	    FROM @searchlog
	WHERE Region == "en-gb";
	
	@rs1 =
	    SELECT Start, Region, Duration
	    FROM @rs1
	    WHERE Start <= DateTime.Parse("2012/02/19");
	
	OUTPUT @rs1   
	    TO @out
	      USING Outputters.Tsv(quoting:false, dateTimeFormat:null);

The values for **@in** and **@out** parameters in the above U-SQL script are passed dynamically by ADF using the ‘parameters’ section. See the ‘parameters’ section above in the pipeline definition.

You can specify other properties viz. degreeOfParallelism, priority etc. as well in your pipeline definition for the jobs that run on the Azure Data Lake Analytics service.

