---
title: Understand Azure IoT Hub file upload | Microsoft Docs
description: Developer guide - use the file upload feature of IoT Hub to manage uploading files from a device to an Azure storage blob container.
author: robinsh
manager: philmea
ms.author: robinsh
ms.service: iot-hub
services: iot-hub
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 07/30/2021
ms.custom: [mqtt, 'Role: Cloud Development', 'Role: IoT Device']
---

# Upload files with IoT Hub

There are many scenarios in which you can't easily map the data your devices send into the relatively small device-to-cloud messages that IoT Hub accepts. For example:

* Large image files
* Video Files
* Vibration data sampled at high frequency
* Some form of preprocessed data

When you need to upload larger files from a device, you can still use the security and reliability of IoT Hub. Instead of brokering messages through itself, however, IoT Hub acts as a dispatcher to an associated Azure Storage account. To upload a file, a device requests a SAS URI from IoT Hub. IoT Hub returns a SAS URI that is specific to the Azure storage blob that the device will upload the file to. The device then uses the SAS URI and Azure storage APIs to upload the file to storage.

[!INCLUDE [iot-hub-include-x509-ca-signed-file-upload-support-note](../../includes/iot-hub-include-x509-ca-signed-file-upload-support-note.md)]

### When to use

Use file uploads to send media files and large telemetry batches uploaded by intermittently connected devices or compressed to save bandwidth. Refer to [Device-to-cloud communication guidance](iot-hub-devguide-d2c-guidance.md) if in doubt between using reported properties, device-to-cloud messages, or file upload.

## File upload overview

IoT Hub exposes device-facing endpoints through which a device can initiate file uploads and send file upload complete notifications to IoT Hub. It exposes a service-facing endpoint through which it notifies backend services of completed file uploads. To learn more, see [IoT Hub endpoints](iot-hub-devguide-endpoints.md).

File uploads are performed using Azure storage 

For devices:
1. Associate an Azure storage account and blob container with IoT Hub. Optionally, set SAS URI time-to-live (TTL).
1. Device initiates the file upload with IoT Hub and gets a SAS URI and correlation ID in return.
1. Device uses the SAS URI to call Azure blob storage APIs to upload the file to the blob container.
1. When the file upload is complete, device notifies IoT Hub of the completion status using the correlation ID it received from IoT Hub when it initiated the upload.

For services:
1. Enable file upload notifications and configure file upload properties on IoT Hub.
1. Services subscribe to file upload notifications from the IoT Hub on the IoT hub's service-facing file notification endpoint.

IoT Hub has throttling limits on the number of file uploads that it can initiate in a given period. The threshold is based on the SKU and number of units of your IoT hub. Additionally, each device is limited to 10 concurrent active file uploads at a time. For more information, see [Throttling and quotas](iot-hub-devguide-quotas-throttling.md).

## Associate an Azure Storage account with IoT Hub

To upload files from devices, you must have an Azure Storage account and blob container associated with your IoT hub. After you've associated a storage account and blob container, your IoT hub can generate a SAS URI specific to a blob in that container when requested by a device. The device uses this SAS URI to securely upload a file to the blob.

To configure a storage account and blob container on your IoT hub, see [Configure file uploads](iot-hub-configure-file-upload.md). If you're using the portal, you can create a storage account and container as part of the configuration. Otherwise, to create a storage account, see [Create a storage account](../storage/common/storage-account-create.md) in the Azure storage documentation. Once you have a storage account, you can see how to create a blob container in the [Azure blob storage quickstarts](/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-portal).

### File upload settings

In addition to the storage account and blob container, you can configure the following settings to control file uploads from the device:

| Property | Description | Range and default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **storageEndpoints.$default.ttlAsIso8601** |Default TTL for SAS URIs generated by IoT Hub. |ISO_8601 interval up to 48H (minimum 1 minute). | Default: 1 hour. |
| **storageEndpoints.$default.authenticationType** |Controls how the IoT Hub authenticates with Azure storage. Possible values are keyBased and identityBased.  |  The default is keyBased. |

There are other settings that depend on the authentication type. For more information, see [Configure file uploads](iot-hub-configure-file-upload.md).

### File upload notification settings

You can configure the following settings for file upload notifications to backend services:

| Property | Description | Range and default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **enableFileUploadNotifications** |Controls whether file upload notifications are written to the file notifications endpoint. |Bool. Default: True. |
| **fileNotifications.ttlAsIso8601** |Default TTL for file upload notifications. |ISO_8601 interval up to 48H (minimum 1 minute). Default: 1 hour. |
| **fileNotifications.lockDuration** |Lock duration for the file upload notifications queue. |5 to 300 seconds (minimum 5 seconds). Default: 60 seconds. |
| **fileNotifications.maxDeliveryCount** |Maximum delivery count for the file upload notification queue. |1 to 100. Default: 100. |

## File upload using an SDK

The following how-to guides provide complete step-by-step instructions to perform file uploads in a variety of SDK languages. They show you how to use the Azure portal to associate a storage account with an IoT hub and contain code snippets or refer to samples that guide you through an upload.

| How-to guide | Device SDK example | Service SDK example |
|---------|--------|---------|
| [.NET](iot-hub-csharp-csharp-file-upload.md) | Yes | No |
| [Java](iot-hub-java-java-file-upload.md) | Yes | Yes |
| [Node.js](iot-hub-node-node-file-upload.md) | Yes | Yes |
| [Python](iot-hub-python-python-file-upload.md) | Yes | No |

> [!NOTE]
> The C device SDK uses a single call on the device client to perform file uploads. For more information, see [IoTHubDeviceClient_UploadToBlobAsync()](/azure/iot-hub/iot-c-sdk-ref/iothub-device-client-h/iothubdeviceclient-uploadtoblobasync) and [IoTHubDeviceClient_UploadMultipleBlocksToBlobAsync()](/azure/iot-hub/iot-c-sdk-ref/iothub-device-client-h/iothubdeviceclient-uploadmultipleblockstoblobasync). These functions perform all aspects of the file upload - initiating the upload, uploading the file to Azure storage, and notifying IoT Hub when it completes -- in a single call. Make sure that access to both the IoT Hub endpoint and the Azure storage endpoint (HTTPS) is available to the device as these functions will make calls to Azure storage APIs.

## Device: Initialize a file upload

The device calls the [Create File Upload SAS URI](/rest/api/iothub/device/create-file-upload-sas-uri) REST API or the equivalent API in one of the device SDKs to initiate a file upload.

**Supported protocols**: AMQP, AMQP-WS, MQTT, MQTT-WS, and HTTPS <br/>
**Endpoint**: {iot hub}.azure-devices.net/devices/{deviceId}/files <br/>
**Method**: POST

```json
{
    "blobName":"myfile.txt"
}

```
| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| blobName | The name of the blob to generate the SAS URI for. |

 IoT Hub responds with a correlation ID and the elements of a SAS URI that the device can use to authenticate with Azure storage. This response is subject to the throttling limits and per-device upload limits of the target IoT hub. 

```json
{
    "correlationId":"MjAyMTA3MzAwNjIxXzBiNjgwOGVkLWZjNzQtN...MzYzLWRlZmI4OWQxMzdmNF9teWZpbGUudHh0X3ZlcjIuMA==",
    "hostName":"contosostorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net",
    "containerName":"device-upload-container",
    "blobName":"mydevice/myfile.txt",
    "sasToken":"?sv=2018-03-28&sr=b&sig=mBLiODhpKXBs0y9RVzwk1S...l1X9qAfDuyg%3D&se=2021-07-30T06%3A11%3A10Z&sp=rw"
}

```
| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| correlationId | The identifier for the device to use when sending the file upload complete notification to IoT Hub. |
| hostName | The Azure storage account host name for the storage account configured on the IoT hub |
| containerName | The name of the blob container configured on the IoT hub. |
| blobName | The location where the blob will be stored in the container. The name is in- the following format: `{device ID of the device making the request}/{blobName in the request}` | 
| sasToken | A SAS token that grants read/write access on the blob. The token is generated and signed by IoT Hub. |

When it receives the response, the device:

* Saves the correlation ID to include in the file upload complete notification to IoT hub when it completes the upload. 

* Uses the other properties to construct a SAS URI for the blob that it uses to authenticate with Azure storage. The SAS URI is of the following form: `https://{hostMane}/{containerName}/{blobName}{sasToken}` (The `sasToken` property in the response contains a leading '?' character.) The braces aren't included. For more information about the SAS URI and SAS token, see [Create a service SAS](/rest/api/storageservices/create-service-sas) in the Azure storage documentation. 


## Device: Upload file using Azure Storage APIs

The device uses the [Azure Blob storage REST APIs](/rest/api/storageservices/blob-service-rest-api) or equivalent Azure storage SDK APIs to upload the file to the blob in Azure storage. 

**Supported protocols**: HTTPS

The following example shows a [Put Blob](/rest/api/storageservices/put-blob) request to create or update a small block blob. Notice that the URI used for this request is the SAS URI returned by IoT Hub in the previous section. The `x-ms-blob-type` header indicates that this request is for a block blob. If the request is successful, Azure storage returns a `201 Created`.

```http
PUT https://contosostorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net/device-upload-container/mydevice/myfile.txt?sv=2018-03-28&sr=b&sig=mBLiODhpKXBs0y9RVzwk1S...l1X9qAfDuyg%3D&se=2021-07-30T06%3A11%3A10Z&sp=rw HTTP/1.1
Content-Length: 11
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
Host: contosostorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net
x-ms-blob-type: BlockBlob

hello world
```

To learn more about uploadingSee the Azure storage documentation for more infoFor more information about using Azure storage, see 


## Device: Notify IoT Hub of a completed file upload

The device calls the [Update File Upload Status](/rest/api/iothub/device/update-file-upload-status) REST API or the equivalent API in one of the device SDKs when it completes the file upload. The device should update the file upload status with IoT Hub regardless of whether the upload succeeds or fails.

**Supported protocols**: AMQP, AMQP-WS, MQTT, MQTT-WS, and HTTPS <br/>
**Endpoint**: {iot hub}.azure-devices.net/devices/{deviceId}/files/notifications <br/>
**Method**: POST 

```json
{
    "correlationId": "MjAyMTA3MzAwNjIxXzBiNjgwOGVkLWZjNzQtN...MzYzLWRlZmI4OWQxMzdmNF9teWZpbGUudHh0X3ZlcjIuMA==",
    "isSuccess": true,
    "statusCode": 200,
    "statusDescription": "File uploaded successfully"
}

```
 Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| correlationId | The correlation ID received in the initial SAS URI request. |
| isSuccess | A boolean that indicates whether the file upload was successful. |
| statusCode | An integer that represents the status code of the file upload. Typically 3 digits; for example, 200 201. |
| statusDescription | A human-readable description of the file upload status. |

When it receives a file upload complete notification from the device, IoT Hub:

* Triggers a file upload notification to backend services if file upload notifications are configured.

* Releases resources associated with the file upload. Without receiving a notification, IoT Hub will maintain the resources until the SAS URI time-to-live (TTL) associated with the upload expires.

## Service: File upload notifications

If file upload notifications are enabled on your IoT hub, IoT Hub generates a notification message for backend services when it receives notification from a device that a file upload is complete. IoT Hub delivers these file upload notifications through a service-facing endpoint. The receive semantics for file upload notifications are the same as for cloud-to-device messages and have the same [message life cycle](iot-hub-devguide-messages-c2d.md#the-cloud-to-device-message-life-cycle). The service SDKs expose APIs to handle file upload notifications. 

**Supported protocols** AMQP, AMQP-WS <br/>
**Endpoint**: {iot hub}.azure-devices.net/messages/servicebound/fileuploadnotifications <br/>
**Method** GET

Each message retrieved from the file upload notification endpoint is a JSON record:

```json
{
    "deviceId":"mydevice",
    "blobUri":"https://contosostorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net/device-upload-container/mydevice/myfile.txt",
    "blobName":"mydevice/myfile.txt",
    "lastUpdatedTime":"2021-07-31T00:26:50+00:00",
    "blobSizeInBytes":11,
    "enqueuedTimeUtc":"2021-07-31T00:26:51.5134008Z"
}
```

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| enqueuedTimeUtc | Timestamp indicating when the notification was created. |
| deviceId | The Device ID of the device that uploaded the file. |
| blobUri | The URI of the uploaded file. |
| blobName | The name of the uploaded file. The name is in the following format: `{device ID of the device }/{name of the blob}`|
| LastUpdatedTime |Timestamp indicating when the file was last updated. |
| BlobSizeInBytes | An integer that represents the size of the uploaded file in bytes. |

Services can use notifications to manage uploads. For example, they can trigger their own processing of the blob data, trigger processing of the blob data using other Azure services, or log the file upload notification for later review.

## Next steps

Now you've learned how to upload files from devices using IoT Hub, you may be interested in the following IoT Hub developer guide topics:

* [Azure IoT device and service SDKs](iot-hub-devguide-sdks.md) lists the various language SDKs you can use when you develop both device and service apps that interact with IoT Hub.

* [IoT Hub MQTT support](iot-hub-mqtt-support.md) provides more information about IoT Hub support for the MQTT protocol.

* [Manage device identities in IoT Hub](iot-hub-devguide-identity-registry.md)

* [Control access to IoT Hub](iot-hub-devguide-security.md)

* [Use device twins to synchronize state and configurations](iot-hub-devguide-device-twins.md)

* [Invoke a direct method on a device](iot-hub-devguide-direct-methods.md)

* [Schedule jobs on multiple devices](iot-hub-devguide-jobs.md)

To try out some of the concepts described in this article, see the following IoT Hub tutorial:

* [How to upload files from devices to the cloud with IoT Hub](iot-hub-csharp-csharp-file-upload.md)
