# IoT Hub Device Streams Press Release


*January 15, 2019*

Today, we are announcing *IoT Hub device streams* to further improve the security of network-connected IoT devices. This feature extends IoT Hub's support beyond the traditional core areas of device telemetry and  management, and enables us to serve the connectivity needs of a broader spectrum of device applications including remote access, web, and file transfer, among others.

An IoT hub device stream is a TLS-enabled data transport tunnel that proxies application traffic to and from devices through IoT Hub endpoints in the Azure cloud. As such establishing streaming tunnels to IoT devices only relies on outbound connectivity from the devices to IoT Hub. This eliminates the need to open up inbound firewall ports on the devices or their network. As a result, IoT Hub device streams remain firewall-friendly and help significantly reduce devices' connectivity exposure to the public Internet.
	
Furthermore, IoT Hub device streams are general-purpose and compatible with TCP/IP-based applications. This enables customers, application developers and platform builders to leverage device streams as a building block for secure end-to-end connectivity to devices for their proprietary application protocols. Additionally, device streams also support a wide range of standards-based protocols including Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), Secure Shell (SSH), and Web (HTTP/HTTPS), and File Transfer Protocol (FTP).
	
As an example, consider IoT devices or equipment deployed in a factory's local area network that need to be accessed by operators from remote sites for maintenance or troubleshooting. Traditionally, this scenario necessitates the setup of a complex Virtual Private Network (VPN) or opening up of the factory's network firewall to allow for direct inbound connections to the devices. Using this new feature, the devices leverage their outbound connectivity to IoT Hub to also receive inbound connections from outside (e.g., remote operators). This enables remote access applications such as RDP or SSH to communicate with the devices in a firewall-friendly manner. In particular, the devices' ports and network interfaces are not exposed to external threats on the Internet, therefore improving devices' security posture. Furthermore, authentication of both sides of the tunnel and encryption of its traffic are additional benefits provided by device streams.
	
During public preview, device steams will be available to standard SKU IoT Hub instances created in Central US, and Central US EUAP regions. The service will be free of charge during preview and will allow for up-to 50 concurrent streams per Hub and 300 MB of aggregated transferred data per day per Hub. These caps will be relaxed when the feature becomes generally available, and device streams support will be made available in new regions over time.
	
To learn more, see device streams [documentation page](iot-hub-device-streams-overview.md) for feature information, or refer to [Azure pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/iot-hub/) for updates on pricing.