---
author: Juliako
ms.service: azure-video-analyzer
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/07/2021
ms.author: juliako
---

As part of the prerequisites, you downloaded the sample code to a folder. Follow these steps to examine and edit the sample files.

1. In Visual Studio Code, go to **src/edge**. You see your *.env* file and a few deployment template files.

    The deployment template refers to the deployment manifest for the edge device. It includes some placeholder values. The .env file includes the values for those variables.
1. Go to the **src/cloud-to-device-console-app** folder. Here you see your *appsettings.json* file and a few other files:

    * **c2d-console-app.csproj** - The project file for Visual Studio Code.
    * **operations.json** - A list of the operations that you want the program to run.
    * **Program.cs** - The sample program code. This code:

        * Loads the app settings.
        * Invokes [direct methods](../../../direct-methods.md) that the Video Analyzer edge module exposes.
        * Pauses so that you can examine the program's output in the **TERMINAL** window and examine the events that were generated by the module in the **OUTPUT** window.
        * Invokes direct methods to clean up resources.
1. Edit the **operations.json** file:
    * Change the link to the pipeline: <br/>`"pipelineTopologyUrl" : "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/video-analyzer/main/pipelines/live/topologies/evr-motion-file-sink/topology.json" `
    * Under livePipelineSet, edit the name of the pipeline topology to match the value in the preceding link: <br/>`"topologyName" : "EVRToFilesOnMotionDetection" `
    * Under PipelineTopologyDelete, edit the name: <br/>`"name": "EVRToFilesOnMotionDetection" `
