---
title: Data flow in IoT connector - Azure Healthcare APIs
description: Understand IoT connector's data flow. IoT connector ingests, normalizes, groups, transforms, and persists IoMT data to FHIR service.
services: healthcare-apis
author: msjasteppe
ms.service: healthcare-apis
ms.subservice: iomt
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/22/2021
ms.author: jasteppe
---

# IoT connector data flow

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Azure Healthcare APIs is currently in PREVIEW. The [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/) include additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.

This article provides an overview of IoT connector data flow. You'll learn about the different data processing stages within IoT connector that transform device data into Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR&#174;)-based [Observation](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/observation.html) resources.

Data from health-related devices or medical devices flows through a path in which the IoT connector transforms data into FHIR, and then data is stored on and accessed from the FHIR service. The health data path follows these steps in this order: ingest, normalize, group, transform, and persist. In this data flow, health data is retrieved from the device in the first step of ingestion. After the data is received, it's processed or normalized per user-selected or user-created schema templates, so the health data is simpler to process and can be grouped. Health data is grouped into three Operate parameters. After the health data is normalized and grouped, it can be processed or transformed through FHIR destination mappings, and then saved or persisted on the FHIR service.

This article goes into more depth about each step in the data flow. The next steps are [how to deploy an IoT connector](deploy-iot-connector-in-azure.md) by using Device mappings (the normalization step) and FHIR destination mappings (the transform step).

The next sections describe the stages that IoMT (Internet of Medical Things) data goes through once received from an event hub into IoT connector.

:::image type="content" source="media/iot-data-flow/iot-data-flow.png" alt-text="IoMT data flow from IoT devices into an event hub. IoMT data ingested by IoT connector is normalized, grouped, transformed, and persisted in a FHIR service." lightbox="media/iot-data-flow/iot-data-flow.png":::

## Ingest
Ingest is the first stage where device data is received into IoT connector. The ingestion endpoint for device data is hosted on an [Azure Event Hubs](../../event-hubs/index.yml). Azure Event Hubs platform supports high scale and throughput with ability to receive and process millions of messages per second. It also enables IoT connector to consume messages asynchronously, removing the need for devices to wait while device data gets processed.

> [!NOTE]
> JSON is the only supported format at this time for device data.

## Normalize
Normalize is the next stage where device data is retrieved from the above event hub and processed using the Device mappings. This mapping process results in transforming device data into a normalized schema. 

The normalization process not only simplifies data processing at later stages but also provides the capability to project one input message into multiple normalized messages. For instance, a device could send multiple vital signs for body temperature, pulse rate, blood pressure, and respiration rate in a single message. This input message would create four separate FHIR resources. Each resource would represent different vital sign, with the input message projected into four different normalized messages.

## Group
Group is the next stage where the normalized messages available from the previous stage are grouped using three different parameters:

* Device identity
* Measurement type 
* Time period

Device identity and measurement type grouping enable use of [SampledData](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/datatypes.html#SampledData) measurement type. This type provides a concise way to represent a time-based series of measurements from a device in FHIR. And time period controls the latency at which Observation resources generated by the IoT connector are written to FHIR service.

> [!NOTE]
> The time period value is defaulted to 15 minutes and cannot be configured for preview.

## Transform
In the Transform stage, grouped-normalized messages are processed through FHIR destination mapping templates. Messages matching a template type get transformed into FHIR-based Observation resources as specified through the mapping.

At this point, [Device](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/device.html) resource, along with its associated [Patient](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/patient.html) resource, is also retrieved from the FHIR service using the device identifier present in the message. These resources are added as a reference to the Observation resource being created.

> [!NOTE]
> All identity look ups are cached once resolved to decrease load on the FHIR service. If you plan on reusing devices with multiple patients it is advised you create a virtual device resource that is specific to the patient and send virtual device identifier in the message payload. The virtual device can be linked to the actual device resource as a parent.

If no Device resource for a given device identifier exists in the FHIR service, the outcome depends upon the value of `Resolution Type` set at the time of creation. When set to `Lookup`, the specific message is ignored, and the pipeline will continue to process other incoming messages. If set to `Create`, the IoT connector will create a bare-bones Device and Patient resources on the FHIR service.  

## Persist
Once the Observation FHIR resource is generated in the Transform stage, the resource is saved into the FHIR service. If the Observation FHIR resource is new, it will be created on the FHIR service. If the Observation FHIR resource already existed, it will get updated.

## Next steps

Learn how to create Device and FHIR destination mappings.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Device mappings](how-to-use-device-mappings.md)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [FHIR destination mappings](how-to-use-fhir-mappings.md)

(FHIR&#174;) is a registered trademark of [HL7](https://hl7.org/fhir/) and is used with the permission of HL7.
