---
title: Deploy a self-hosted gateway to Kubernetes with Helm
description: Learn how to deploy self-hosted gateway component of Azure API Management to Kubernetes with Helm
author: tomkerkhove
manager: mrcarlosdev
ms.service: api-management
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 12/21/2021
ms.author: tomkerkhove
---

# Deploy to Kubernetes with Helm

[Helm][helm] is an open-source packaging tool that helps you install and manage the lifecycle of Kubernetes applications. It allows you to manage Kubernetes charts, which are packages of pre-configured Kubernetes resources.

This article provides the steps for deploying self-hosted gateway component of Azure API Management to a Kubernetes cluster by using Helm.

[!INCLUDE [preview](./includes/preview/preview-callout-self-hosted-gateway-deprecation.md)]

> [!NOTE]
> You can also deploy self-hosted gateway to an [Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster](how-to-deploy-self-hosted-gateway-azure-arc.md) as a [cluster extension](../azure-arc/kubernetes/extensions.md).

[!INCLUDE [api-management-availability-premium-dev](../../includes/api-management-availability-premium-dev.md)]

## Prerequisites

- Create a Kubernetes cluster, or have access to an existing one.
   > [!TIP]
   > [Single-node clusters](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/#learning-environment) work well for development and evaluation purposes. Use [Kubernetes Certified](https://kubernetes.io/partners/#conformance) multi-node clusters on-premises or in the cloud for production workloads.
* [Create an Azure API Management instance](get-started-create-service-instance.md).
* [Provision a gateway resource in your API Management instance](api-management-howto-provision-self-hosted-gateway.md).
* [Install Helm v3][helm-install].

## Adding the Helm repository

1. Add Azure API Management as a new Helm repository.

   ```console
   helm repo add azure-apim-gateway https://azure.github.io/api-management-self-hosted-gateway/helm-charts/
   ```

2. Update repo to fetch the latest Helm charts.

   ```console
   helm repo update
   ```

3. Verify your Helm configuration by listing all available charts.

   ```console
   $ helm search repo azure-apim-gateway
   NAME                                            CHART VERSION   APP VERSION     DESCRIPTION
   azure-apim-gateway/azure-api-management-gateway 1.0.0           2.0.0           A Helm chart to deploy an Azure API Management ...
   ```

## Deploy the self-hosted gateway to Kubernetes

1. Select **Gateways** from under **Deployment and infrastructure**.
2. Select the self-hosted gateway resource you intend to deploy.
3. Select **Deployment**.
4. A new token in the **Token** text box was autogenerated for you using the default **Expiry** and **Secret Key** values. Adjust either or both if desired and select **Generate** to create a new token.
5. Take note of your **Token** and **Configuration URL**
6. Install the self-hosted gateway by using the Helm chart

   ```console
   helm install azure-api-management-gateway \
                --set gateway.configuration.uri='<your configuration url>' \
                --set gateway.auth.key='<your token>' \
                azure-apim-gateway/azure-api-management-gateway
   ```
   
7. Execute the command. The command instructs your Kubernetes cluster to:
    * Download the image of the self-hosted gateway from the Microsoft Container Registry and run it as a container.
    * Configure the container to expose HTTP (8080) and HTTPS (8081) ports.

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > By default, the gateway is using a ClusterIP service and is only exposed inside the cluster.
   > You can change this by specifying the type of Kubernetes service during installation.
   > 
   > For example, you can expose it through a load balancer by adding `--set service.type=LoadBalancer`

8. Run the following command to check the gateway pod is running. Your pod name will be different.

   ```console
   kubectl get pods
   NAME                                           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   azure-api-management-gateway-59f5fb94c-s9stz   1/1       Running   0          1m
   ```

9. Run the following command to check the gateway service is running. Your service name and IP addresses will be different.

    ```console
    kubectl get services
    NAME                           TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)               AGE
    azure-api-management-gateway   ClusterIP   10.0.229.55     <none>        8080/TCP,8081/TCP     1m
    ```

10. Return to the Azure portal and confirm that gateway node you deployed is reporting healthy status.

> [!TIP]
> Use `kubectl logs <gateway-pod-name>` command to view a snapshot of self-hosted gateway log.

## Next steps

* Learn more about the self-hosted gateway, see [Azure API Management self-hosted gateway overview](self-hosted-gateway-overview.md).
* Learn more about guidance for [running the self-hosted gateway on Kubernetes in production](how-to-self-hosted-gateway-on-kubernetes-in-production.md).
* Learn [how to deploy API Management self-hosted gateway to Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters](how-to-deploy-self-hosted-gateway-azure-arc.md).
* Learn more about the [observability capabilities of the Azure API Management gateways](observability.md).

[helm]: https://helm.sh/
[helm-install]: https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/
