articles/azure-arc/servers/onboard-portal.md, before:

---
title: Connect hybrid machines to Azure from the Azure portal
description: In this article, you learn how to install the agent and connect machines to Azure by using Azure Arc enabled servers from the Azure portal.
ms.date: 09/02/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: references_regions
---

# Connect hybrid machines to Azure from the Azure portal

You can enable Azure Arc enabled servers for one or a small number of Windows or Linux machines in your environment by performing a set of steps manually. Or you can use an automated method by running a template script that we provide. This script automates the download and installation of both agents.

This method requires that you have administrator permissions on the machine to install and configure the agent. On Linux, by using the root account, and on Windows, you are member of the Local Administrators group.

Before you get started, be sure to review the [prerequisites](agent-overview.md#prerequisites) and verify that your subscription and resources meet the requirements.

If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.

## Generate the installation script from the Azure portal

The script to automate the download and installation, and to establish the connection with Azure Arc, is available from the Azure portal. To complete the process, do the following:

1. From your browser, go to the [Azure portal](https://aka.ms/hybridmachineportal).

1. On the **Servers - Azure Arc** page, select **Add** at the upper left.

1. On the **Select a method** page, select the **Add servers using interactive script** tile, and then select **Generate script**.

1. On the **Generate script** page, select the subscription and resource group where you want the machine to be managed within Azure. Select an Azure location where the machine metadata will be stored.

    >[!NOTE]
    >Azure Arc enabled servers supports only the following regions:
    >- EastUS
    >- WestUS2
    >- WestEurope
    >- SoutheastAsia
    >
    >Review additional considerations when selecting a region [here](overview.md#supported-regions) in the Overview article.

1. On the **Prerequisites** page, review the information and then select **Next: Resource details**.

1. On the **Resource details** page, provide the following:

    1. In the **Resource group** drop-down list, select the resource group the machine will be managed from.
    1. In the **Region** drop-down list, select the Azure region to store the servers metadata.
    1. In the **Operating system** drop-down list, select the operating system that the script be configured to run on.
    1. If the machine is communicating through a proxy server to connect to the internet, specify the proxy server IP address or the name and port number that the machine will use to communicate with the proxy server. Enter the value in the format `http://<proxyURL>:<proxyport>`.
    1. Select **Next: Tags**.

1. On the **Tags** page, review the default **Physical location tags** suggested and enter a value, or specify one or more **Custom tags** to support your standards.

1. Select **Next: Download and run script**.

1. On the **Download and run script** page, review the summary information, and then select **Download**. If you still need to make changes, select **Previous**.

## Install and validate the agent on Windows

### Install manually

You can install the Connected Machine agent manually by running the Windows Installer package *AzureConnectedMachineAgent.msi*. You can download the latest version of the [Windows agent Windows Installer package](https://aka.ms/AzureConnectedMachineAgent) from the Microsoft Download Center.

>[!NOTE]
>* To install or uninstall the agent, you must have *Administrator* permissions.
>* You must first download and copy the Installer package to a folder on the target server, or from a shared network folder. If you run the Installer package without any options, it starts a setup wizard that you can follow to install the agent interactively.

If the machine needs to communicate through a proxy server to the service, after you install the agent you need to run a command that's described in the steps below. This command sets the proxy server system environment variable `https_proxy`.

If you are unfamiliar with the command-line options for Windows Installer packages, review [Msiexec standard command-line options](/windows/win32/msi/standard-installer-command-line-options) and [Msiexec command-line options](/windows/win32/msi/command-line-options).

For example, run the installation program with the `/?` parameter to review the help and quick reference option.

```dos
msiexec.exe /i AzureConnectedMachineAgent.msi /?
```

1. To install the agent silently and create a setup log file in the `C:\Support\Logs` folder that exist, run the following command.

    ```dos
    msiexec.exe /i AzureConnectedMachineAgent.msi /qn /l*v "C:\Support\Logs\Azcmagentsetup.log"
    ```

    If the agent fails to start after setup is finished, check the logs for detailed error information. The log directory is *%Programfiles%\AzureConnectedMachineAgentAgent\logs*.

2. If the machine needs to communicate through a proxy server, to set the proxy server environment variable, run the following command:

    ```powershell
    [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("https_proxy", "http://{proxy-url}:{proxy-port}", "Machine")
    $env:https_proxy = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("https_proxy","Machine")
    # For the changes to take effect, the agent service needs to be restarted after the proxy environment variable is set.
    Restart-Service -Name himds
    ```

    >[!NOTE]
    >The agent does not support setting proxy authentication in this preview.
    >

3. After installing the agent, you need to configure it to communicate with the Azure Arc service by running the following command:

    ```dos
    "%ProgramFiles%\AzureConnectedMachineAgent\azcmagent.exe" connect --resource-group "resourceGroupName" --tenant-id "tenantID" --location "regionName" --subscription-id "subscriptionID"
    ```

### Install with the scripted method

1. Log in to the server.

1. Open an elevated PowerShell command prompt.

    >[!NOTE]
    >The script only supports running from a 64-bit version of Windows PowerShell.
    >

1. Change to the folder or share that you copied the script to, and execute it on the server by running the `./OnboardingScript.ps1` script.

If the agent fails to start after setup is finished, check the logs for detailed error information. The log directory is *%Programfiles%\AzureConnectedMachineAgentAgent\logs*.

## Install and validate the agent on Linux

The Connected Machine agent for Linux is provided in the preferred package format for the distribution (.RPM or .DEB) that's hosted in the Microsoft [package repository](https://packages.microsoft.com/). The [shell script bundle `Install_linux_azcmagent.sh`](https://aka.ms/azcmagent) performs the following actions:

- Configures the host machine to download the agent package from packages.microsoft.com.
- Installs the Hybrid Resource Provider package.
- Registers the machine with Azure Arc

Optionally, you can configure the agent with your proxy information by including the `--proxy "{proxy-url}:{proxy-port}"` parameter.

The script also contains logic to identify the supported and unsupported distributions, and it verifies the permissions that are required to perform the installation.

The following example downloads the agent and installs it:

```bash
# Download the installation package.
wget https://aka.ms/azcmagent -O ~/Install_linux_azcmagent.sh

# Install the connected machine agent.
bash ~/Install_linux_azcmagent.sh
```

To download and install the agent, including the `--proxy` parameter for configuring the agent to communicate through your proxy server, run the following commands:

```bash
# Download the installation package.
wget https://aka.ms/azcmagent -O ~/Install_linux_azcmagent.sh

# Install the connected machine agent. 
bash ~/Install_linux_azcmagent.sh --proxy "{proxy-url}:{proxy-port}"
```

## Verify the connection with Azure Arc

After you install the agent and configure it to connect to Azure Arc enabled servers, go to the Azure portal to verify that the server has successfully connected. View your machines in the [Azure portal](https://aka.ms/hybridmachineportal).

![A successful server connection](./media/onboard-portal/arc-for-servers-successful-onboard.png)

## Next steps

- Learn how to manage your machine using [Azure Policy](../../governance/policy/overview.md), for such things as VM [guest configuration](../../governance/policy/concepts/guest-configuration.md), verifying the machine is reporting to the expected Log Analytics workspace, enable monitoring with [Azure Monitor with VMs](../../azure-monitor/insights/vminsights-enable-policy.md), and much more.

- Learn more about [the [Log Analytics agent]](../../azure-monitor/platform/log-analytics-agent.md). The Log Analytics agent for Windows and Linux is required when you want to collect operating system and workload monitoring data, manage it using Automation runbooks or features like Update Management, or use other Azure services like [Azure Security Center](../../security-center/security-center-intro.md).

Commit message:

updated articles to ref troubleshooting article

articles/azure-arc/servers/onboard-portal.md, after:

---
title: Connect hybrid machines to Azure from the Azure portal
description: In this article, you learn how to install the agent and connect machines to Azure by using Azure Arc enabled servers from the Azure portal.
ms.date: 09/24/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: references_regions
---

# Connect hybrid machines to Azure from the Azure portal

You can enable Azure Arc enabled servers for one or a small number of Windows or Linux machines in your environment by performing a set of steps manually. Or you can use an automated method by running a template script that we provide. This script automates the download and installation of both agents.

This method requires that you have administrator permissions on the machine to install and configure the agent. On Linux, by using the root account, and on Windows, you are member of the Local Administrators group.

Before you get started, be sure to review the [prerequisites](agent-overview.md#prerequisites) and verify that your subscription and resources meet the requirements.

If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.

## Generate the installation script from the Azure portal

The script to automate the download and installation, and to establish the connection with Azure Arc, is available from the Azure portal. To complete the process, do the following:

1. From your browser, go to the [Azure portal](https://aka.ms/hybridmachineportal).

1. On the **Servers - Azure Arc** page, select **Add** at the upper left.

1. On the **Select a method** page, select the **Add servers using interactive script** tile, and then select **Generate script**.

1. On the **Generate script** page, select the subscription and resource group where you want the machine to be managed within Azure. Select an Azure location where the machine metadata will be stored.

    >[!NOTE]
    >Azure Arc enabled servers supports only the following regions:
    >- EastUS
    >- WestUS2
    >- WestEurope
    >- SoutheastAsia
    >
    >Review additional considerations when selecting a region [here](overview.md#supported-regions) in the Overview article.

1. On the **Prerequisites** page, review the information and then select **Next: Resource details**.

1. On the **Resource details** page, provide the following:

    1. In the **Resource group** drop-down list, select the resource group the machine will be managed from.
    1. In the **Region** drop-down list, select the Azure region to store the servers metadata.
    1. In the **Operating system** drop-down list, select the operating system that the script be configured to run on.
    1. If the machine is communicating through a proxy server to connect to the internet, specify the proxy server IP address or the name and port number that the machine will use to communicate with the proxy server. Enter the value in the format `http://<proxyURL>:<proxyport>`.
    1. Select **Next: Tags**.

1. On the **Tags** page, review the default **Physical location tags** suggested and enter a value, or specify one or more **Custom tags** to support your standards.

1. Select **Next: Download and run script**.

1. On the **Download and run script** page, review the summary information, and then select **Download**. If you still need to make changes, select **Previous**.

## Install and validate the agent on Windows

### Install manually

You can install the Connected Machine agent manually by running the Windows Installer package *AzureConnectedMachineAgent.msi*. You can download the latest version of the [Windows agent Windows Installer package](https://aka.ms/AzureConnectedMachineAgent) from the Microsoft Download Center.

>[!NOTE]
>* To install or uninstall the agent, you must have *Administrator* permissions.
>* You must first download and copy the Installer package to a folder on the target server, or from a shared network folder. If you run the Installer package without any options, it starts a setup wizard that you can follow to install the agent interactively.

If the machine needs to communicate through a proxy server to the service, after you install the agent you need to run a command that's described in the steps below. This command sets the proxy server system environment variable `https_proxy`.

If you are unfamiliar with the command-line options for Windows Installer packages, review [Msiexec standard command-line options](/windows/win32/msi/standard-installer-command-line-options) and [Msiexec command-line options](/windows/win32/msi/command-line-options).

For example, run the installation program with the `/?` parameter to review the help and quick reference option.

```dos
msiexec.exe /i AzureConnectedMachineAgent.msi /?
```

1. To install the agent silently and create a setup log file in the `C:\Support\Logs` folder that exist, run the following command.

    ```dos
    msiexec.exe /i AzureConnectedMachineAgent.msi /qn /l*v "C:\Support\Logs\Azcmagentsetup.log"
    ```

    If the agent fails to start after setup is finished, check the logs for detailed error information. The log directory is *%Programfiles%\AzureConnectedMachineAgentAgent\logs*.

2. If the machine needs to communicate through a proxy server, to set the proxy server environment variable, run the following command:

    ```powershell
    [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("https_proxy", "http://{proxy-url}:{proxy-port}", "Machine")
    $env:https_proxy = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("https_proxy","Machine")
    # For the changes to take effect, the agent service needs to be restarted after the proxy environment variable is set.
    Restart-Service -Name himds
    ```

    >[!NOTE]
    >The agent does not support setting proxy authentication in this preview.
    >

3. After installing the agent, you need to configure it to communicate with the Azure Arc service by running the following command:

    ```dos
    "%ProgramFiles%\AzureConnectedMachineAgent\azcmagent.exe" connect --resource-group "resourceGroupName" --tenant-id "tenantID" --location "regionName" --subscription-id "subscriptionID"
    ```

### Install with the scripted method

1. Log in to the server.

1. Open an elevated PowerShell command prompt.

    >[!NOTE]
    >The script only supports running from a 64-bit version of Windows PowerShell.
    >

1. Change to the folder or share that you copied the script to, and execute it on the server by running the `./OnboardingScript.ps1` script.

If the agent fails to start after setup is finished, check the logs for detailed error information. The log directory is *%Programfiles%\AzureConnectedMachineAgentAgent\logs*.

## Install and validate the agent on Linux

The Connected Machine agent for Linux is provided in the preferred package format for the distribution (.RPM or .DEB) that's hosted in the Microsoft [package repository](https://packages.microsoft.com/). The [shell script bundle `Install_linux_azcmagent.sh`](https://aka.ms/azcmagent) performs the following actions:

- Configures the host machine to download the agent package from packages.microsoft.com.
- Installs the Hybrid Resource Provider package.
- Registers the machine with Azure Arc

Optionally, you can configure the agent with your proxy information by including the `--proxy "{proxy-url}:{proxy-port}"` parameter.

The script also contains logic to identify the supported and unsupported distributions, and it verifies the permissions that are required to perform the installation.

The following example downloads the agent and installs it:

```bash
# Download the installation package.
wget https://aka.ms/azcmagent -O ~/Install_linux_azcmagent.sh

# Install the connected machine agent.
bash ~/Install_linux_azcmagent.sh
```

To download and install the agent, including the `--proxy` parameter for configuring the agent to communicate through your proxy server, run the following commands:

```bash
# Download the installation package.
wget https://aka.ms/azcmagent -O ~/Install_linux_azcmagent.sh

# Install the connected machine agent. 
bash ~/Install_linux_azcmagent.sh --proxy "{proxy-url}:{proxy-port}"
```

## Verify the connection with Azure Arc

After you install the agent and configure it to connect to Azure Arc enabled servers, go to the Azure portal to verify that the server has successfully connected. View your machines in the [Azure portal](https://aka.ms/hybridmachineportal).

![A successful server connection](./media/onboard-portal/arc-for-servers-successful-onboard.png)

## Next steps

* Troubleshooting information can be found in the [Troubleshoot Connected Machine agent guide](troubleshoot-agent-onboard.md).

* Learn how to manage your machine using [Azure Policy](../../governance/policy/overview.md), for such things as VM [guest configuration](../../governance/policy/concepts/guest-configuration.md), verifying the machine is reporting to the expected Log Analytics workspace, enable monitoring with [Azure Monitor with VMs](../../azure-monitor/insights/vminsights-enable-policy.md), and much more.

* Learn more about [the [Log Analytics agent]](../../azure-monitor/platform/log-analytics-agent.md). The Log Analytics agent for Windows and Linux is required when you want to collect operating system and workload monitoring data, manage it using Automation runbooks or features like Update Management, or use other Azure services like [Azure Security Center](../../security-center/security-center-intro.md).
