---
title: How to enable your own persistent storage in Azure Spring Apps with the Standard consumption and dedicated plan
description: Learn how to enable your own persistent storage in Azure Spring Apps.
author: KarlErickson
ms.author: yitaopan
ms.service: spring-apps
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/21/2023
ms.custom: devx-track-java, devx-track-extended-java, devx-track-azurecli
---

# How to enable your own persistent storage in Azure Spring Apps with the Standard consumption and dedicated plan

> [!NOTE]
> Azure Spring Apps is the new name for the Azure Spring Cloud service. Although the service has a new name, you'll see the old name in some places for a while as we work to update assets such as screenshots, videos, and diagrams.

**This article applies to:** ✔️ Standard consumption and dedicated (Preview) ❌ Basic/Standard ❌ Enterprise

This article describes how to enable your own persistent storage in Azure Spring Apps.

Your own storage and the built-in persistent storage in Azure Spring Apps differ in the following ways:

- In built-in storage, artifacts generated by your application get uploaded into Azure Storage accounts. In your own storage, artifacts generated by your application get uploaded into a storage account that you control.

- In built-in storage, Microsoft Azure controls the encryption-at-rest and the lifetime management policies for those artifacts. In your own storage, you control the encryption-at-rest policy, the lifetime management policy, and network access.

You can also mount your own persistent storage not only to Azure Spring Apps but to other service instances in the environment such as Azure Container Apps. This capability is possible because your Azure Spring Apps instance is deployed in the Azure Container Apps environment.

## Prerequisites

- An Azure subscription. If you don't have a subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.
- [Azure CLI](/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) version 2.45.0 or higher.
- An Azure Spring Apps Standard consumption and dedicated plan service instance. For more information, see [Quickstart: Provision an Azure Spring Apps Standard consumption and dedicated plan service instance](quickstart-provision-standard-consumption-service-instance.md).
- A Spring app deployed to Azure Spring Apps. For more information, see [Quickstart: Build and deploy apps to Azure Spring Apps](quickstart-deploy-apps.md).

## Set up the environment

Use the following commands to set the following variables to the names of your resources and current region setting.

```bash
export RESOURCE_GROUP="<resource-group-name>"
export LOCATION="eastus"
export AZURE_CONTAINER_APPS_ENVIRONMENT="<Azure-Container-Apps-environment-name>"
export AZURE_SPRING_APPS_INSTANCE="<Azure-Spring-Apps-instance-name>"
export APP_NAME="<Spring-app-name>"
```

## Set up a storage account

Use the following steps to create a storage account and establish a file share to mount to the Spring app.

1. Create an Azure Storage account by using the following commands. The `STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME` variable includes a randomly generated suffix to ensure uniqueness.

   ```azurecli
   export STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME="myasastorageaccount$RANDOM"

   az storage account create \
       --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --name $STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME \
       --location "$LOCATION" \
       --kind StorageV2 \
       --sku Standard_LRS \
       --query provisioningState \
       --enable-large-file-share
   ```

   This command returns a success message upon successful completion.

1. Create the Azure Storage file share by using the following commands:

   ```azurecli
   export FILE_SHARE_NAME="<file-share-name>"

   az storage share-rm create \
       --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --storage-account $STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME \
       --name $FILE_SHARE_NAME \
       --quota 1024 \
       --enabled-protocols SMB \
       --output table
   ```

1. Get the Storage Account key by using the following command:

   ```azurecli
   export STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY=$(az storage account keys list \
       --account-name $STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME \
       --query "[0].value" \
       --output tsv)
   ```

   The storage account key is required to create the storage link in your Azure Container Apps environment.

## Link the storage to the Azure Container Apps environment

Create the storage link in the Azure Container Apps environment by using the following commands. The `az containerapp env storage set` command creates a link between the environment and the file share created with the `az storage share-rm` command.

```azurecli
export STORAGE_MOUNT_NAME="<storage-account-name>"

az containerapp env storage set \
    --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --name $AZURE_CONTAINER_APPS_ENVIRONMENT \
    --storage-name $STORAGE_MOUNT_NAME \
    --azure-file-account-name $STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME \
    --azure-file-account-key $STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY \
    --azure-file-share-name $FILE_SHARE_NAME \
    --access-mode ReadWrite \
    --output table
```

Now that the storage account and environment are linked, you can use the storage mount in your Azure Spring Apps instance.

## Add storage to an app

Add the persistent storage to your existing app by using the following command:

```azurecli
az spring app append-persistent-storage \
    --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --service $AZURE_SPRING_APPS_INSTANCE \
    --name $APP_NAME \
    --persistent-storage-type AzureFileVolume \
    --mount-path /var/log/nginx \
    --storage-name $STORAGE_MOUNT_NAME
```

## Clean up resources

Be sure to delete the resources you created in this article when you no longer need them. To delete the resources, just delete the resource group that contains them. You can delete the resource group using the Azure portal. Alternatively, to delete the resource group by using Azure CLI, use the following commands:

```azurecli
echo "Enter the Resource Group name:" &&
read resourceGroupName &&
az group delete --name $resourceGroupName &&
echo "Press [ENTER] to continue ..."
```

## Next steps

- [Customer responsibilities for Azure Spring Apps Standard consumption and dedicated plan in a virtual network](./standard-consumption-customer-responsibilities.md)
