---
title:  "Tutorial: Deploy Spring Boot applications using IntelliJ"

description: Use IntelliJ to deploy applications to Azure Spring Apps.
author: KarlErickson
ms.author: karler
ms.service: spring-apps
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 06/24/2022
ms.custom: devx-track-java, event-tier1-build-2022
---

# Deploy Spring Boot applications using IntelliJ

> [!NOTE]
> Azure Spring Apps is the new name for the Azure Spring Cloud service. Although the service has a new name, you'll see the old name in some places for a while as we work to update assets such as screenshots, videos, and diagrams.

**This article applies to:** ✔️ Java ❌ C#

**This article applies to:** ✔️ Basic/Standard ✔️ Enterprise

The IntelliJ plug-in for Azure Spring Apps supports application deployment from IntelliJ IDEA.

Before running this example, you can try the [basic quickstart](./quickstart.md).

## Prerequisites

* [IntelliJ IDEA, Community/Ultimate Edition, version 2020.x or higher](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/#section=windows)

## Install the plug-in

You can add the Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ IDEA 3.51.0 from the IntelliJ **Plugins** UI.

1. Start IntelliJ. If you have opened a project previously, close the project to show the welcome dialog. Select **Configure** from link lower right, and then select **Plugins** to open the plug-in configuration dialog, and select **Install Plugins from disk**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/configure-plugin.png" alt-text="Screenshot of IntelliJ IDEA Welcome dialog box with Configure element highlighted.":::

1. Search for Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ. Select **Install**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/install-plugin.png" alt-text="Screenshot of IntelliJ IDEA Plugins dialog box with Install button highlighted.":::

1. Select **Restart IDE**.

## Tutorial procedures

The following procedures deploy a Hello World application using IntelliJ IDEA.

* Open the gs-spring-boot project
* Deploy to Azure Spring Apps
* Show streaming logs

## Open gs-spring-boot project

1. Download and unzip the source repository for this tutorial, or clone it using the following Git command: `git clone https://github.com/spring-guides/gs-spring-boot.git`
1. Navigate to the *gs-spring-boot\complete* folder.
1. Open IntelliJ **Welcome** dialog, select **Import Project** to open the import wizard.
1. Select the *gs-spring-boot\complete* folder.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/import-project.png" alt-text="Screenshot of IntelliJ IDEA Open File or Project dialog box with complete folder highlighted." lightbox="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/import-project.png":::

## Deploy to Azure Spring Apps

In order to deploy to Azure you must sign-in with your Azure account, and choose your subscription. For sign-in details, see [Install and sign-in](/azure/developer/java/toolkit-for-intellij/create-hello-world-web-app#install-and-sign-in).

1. Right-click your project in IntelliJ project explorer, and select **Azure** -> **Deploy to Azure Spring Apps**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/deploy-to-azure-menu-option.png" alt-text="Screenshot of IntelliJ IDEA context menu with Deploy to Azure Spring Apps option highlighted." lightbox="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/deploy-to-azure-menu-option.png":::

1. Accept the name for app in the **Name** field. **Name** refers to the configuration, not app name. Users don't usually need to change it.
1. Accept the identifier from the project for the **Artifact**.
1. Select **App:** then click **+** to create an Azure Spring Apps instance.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/deploy-to-azure-dialog-box.png" alt-text="Screenshot of IntelliJ IDEA Deploy Azure Spring app dialog box with plus button highlighted." lightbox="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/deploy-to-azure-dialog-box.png":::

1. Enter **App name**, then select **OK**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/create-azure-spring-app-dialog-box.png" alt-text="Screenshot of IntelliJ IDEA Create Azure Spring App dialog box with App name field in focus.":::

1. Start the deployment by selecting the **Run** button.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/run-button.png" alt-text="Screenshot of IntelliJ IDEA showing Run button." lightbox="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/run-button.png":::

1. The plug-in will run the command `mvn package` on the project and then create the new app and deploy the jar generated by the `package` command.

1. If the app URL is not shown in the output window, get it from the Azure portal. Navigate from your resource group to the instance of Azure Spring Apps. Then select **Apps**. The running app will be listed. Select the app, then copy the **URL** or **Test Endpoint**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/get-test-url.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure portal showing the app overview page with the URL and Test Endpoint fields highlighted." lightbox="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/get-test-url.png":::

1. Navigate to the URL or Test Endpoint in the browser.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/navigate-in-browser.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the app running in a browser displaying the message Greetings from Spring Boot.":::

## Show streaming logs

To get the logs:

1. Select **Azure Explorer**, then **Spring Apps**.
1. Right-click the running app.
1. Select **Streaming Log** from the drop-down list.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/streaming-logs.png" alt-text="Screenshot of IntelliJ IDEA context menu with the Streaming Log option highlighted.":::

1. Select instance.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/select-instance.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the IntelliJ IDEA  Select Instance dialog box.":::

1. The streaming log will be visible in the output window.

   :::image type="content" source="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/streaming-log-output.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the IntelliJ IDEA showing the streaming log in the output window." lightbox="media/how-to-intellij-deploy-apps/streaming-log-output.png":::

## Next steps

* [Prepare Spring application for Azure Spring Apps](how-to-prepare-app-deployment.md)
* [Learn more about Azure Toolkit for IntelliJ](/azure/developer/java/toolkit-for-intellij/)
