---
title: View Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) container logs, events, and pod metrics in real time
description: Learn how to view Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) container logs, events, and pod metrics in real time using Container Insights.
author: schaffererin
ms.service: azure-kubernetes-service
ms.topic: how-to
ms.author: schaffererin
ms.date: 11/01/2023
---

# View Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) container logs, events, and pod metrics in real time

In this article, you learn how to use the *live data* feature in Container Insights to view Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) container logs, events, and pod metrics in real time. This feature provides direct access to `kubectl logs -c`, `kubectl get` events, and `kubectl top pods` to help you troubleshoot issues in real time.

> [!NOTE]
> AKS uses [Kubernetes cluster-level logging architectures][kubernetes-cluster-architecture]. The container logs are located inside `/var/log/containers` on the node. To access a node, see [Connect to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster nodes][node-access].

## Before you begin

For help with setting up the *live data* feature, see [Configure live data in Container Insights][configure-live-data]. This feature directly accesses the Kubernetes API. For more information about the authentication model, see [Kubernetes API][kubernetes-api].

## View AKS resource live logs

> [!NOTE]
> To access logs from a private cluster, you need to be on a machine on the same private network as the cluster.

1. In the [Azure portal][azure-portal], navigate to your AKS cluster.
2. Under **Kubernetes resources**, select **Workloads**.
3. Select the *Deployment*, *Pod*, *Replica Set*, *Stateful Set*, *Job* or *Cron Job* that you want to view logs for, and then select **Live Logs**.
4. Select the resource you want to view logs for.

    The following example shows the logs for a *Pod* resource:

    :::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-live-data/live-data-deployment.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the deployment of live logs." lightbox="./media/container-insights-live-data/live-data-deployment.png":::

## View live logs

You can view real time log data as it's generated by the container engine on the *Cluster*, *Nodes*, *Controllers*, or *Containers*.

1. In the [Azure portal][azure-portal], navigate to your AKS cluster.
2. Under **Monitoring**, select **Insights**.
3. Select the *Cluster*, *Nodes*, *Controllers*, or *Containers* tab, and then select the object you want to view logs for.
4. On the resource **Overview**, select **Live Logs**.

    > [!NOTE]
    > To view the data from your Log Analytics workspace, select **View Logs in Log Analytics**. To learn more about viewing historical logs, events, and metrics, see [How to query logs from Container Insights][log-query].

    After successful authentication, if data can be retrieved, it begins streaming to the Live Logs tab. You can view log data here in a continuous stream. The following image shows the logs for a *Container* resource:

    :::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-live-data/container-live-logs.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the container Live Logs view data option." lightbox="./media/container-insights-live-data/container-live-logs.png":::

## View live events

You can view real-time event data as it's generated by the container engine on the *Cluster*, *Nodes*, *Controllers*, or *Containers*.

1. In the [Azure portal][azure-portal], navigate to your AKS cluster.
2. Under **Monitoring**, select **Insights**.
3. Select the *Cluster*, *Nodes*, *Controllers*, or *Containers* tab, and then select the object you want to view events for.
4. On the resource **Overview** page, select **Live Events**.

    > [!NOTE]
    > To view the data from your Log Analytics workspace, select **View Events in Log Analytics**. To learn more about viewing historical logs, events, and metrics, see [How to query logs from Container Insights][log-query].

    After successful authentication, if data can be retrieved, it begins streaming to the Live Events tab. The following image shows the events for a *Container* resource:

    :::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-live-data/container-live-events.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the container Live Events view data option." lightbox="./media/container-insights-live-data/container-live-events.png":::

## View metrics

You can view real-time metrics data as it's generated by the container engine on the *Nodes* or *Controllers* by selecting a *Pod* resource.

1. In the [Azure portal][azure-portal], navigate to your AKS cluster.
2. Under **Monitoring**, select **Insights**.
3. Select the *Nodes* or *Controllers* tab, and then select the *Pod* object you want to view metrics for.
4. On the resource **Overview** page, select **Live Metrics**.

    > [!NOTE]
    > To view the data from your Log Analytics workspace, select **View Events in Log Analytics**. To learn more about viewing historical logs, events, and metrics, see [How to query logs from Container Insights][log-query].

    After successful authentication, if data can be retrieved, it begins streaming to the Live Metrics tab. The following image shows the metrics for a *Pod* resource:

    :::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-live-data/pod-live-metrics.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the pod Live Metrics view data option." lightbox="./media/container-insights-live-data/pod-live-metrics.png":::

## Next steps

For more information about monitoring on AKS, see the following articles:

* [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) diagnose and solve problems][aks-diagnose-solve-problems]
* [Monitor Kubernetes events for troubleshooting][aks-monitor-events]

<!-- LINKS -->
[kubernetes-cluster-architecture]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#cluster-level-logging-architectures
[node-access]: ./node-access.md
[configure-live-data]: ../azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-livedata-setup.md
[kubernetes-api]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/
[azure-portal]: https://portal.azure.com/
[log-query]: ../azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-log-query.md
[aks-diagnose-solve-problems]: ./aks-diagnostics.md
[aks-monitor-events]: ./events.md
