articles/aks/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal.md, before:

---
title: Create an AKS cluster in the portal
titleSuffix: Azure Kubernetes Service
description: Learn how to quickly create a Kubernetes cluster, deploy an application, and monitor performance in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) using the Azure portal.
services: container-service
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 09/11/2020

ms.custom: mvc, seo-javascript-october2019

#Customer intent: As a developer or cluster operator, I want to quickly create an AKS cluster and deploy an application so that I can see how to run and monitor applications using the managed Kubernetes service in Azure.
---

# Quickstart: Deploy an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster using the Azure portal

Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is a managed Kubernetes service that lets you quickly deploy and manage clusters. In this quickstart, you deploy an AKS cluster using the Azure portal. A multi-container application that includes a web front end and a Redis instance is run in the cluster. You then see how to monitor the health of the cluster and pods that run your application.

![Image of browsing to Azure Vote sample application](media/container-service-kubernetes-walkthrough/azure-voting-application.png)

This quickstart assumes a basic understanding of Kubernetes concepts. For more information, see [Kubernetes core concepts for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)][kubernetes-concepts].

If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.

## Sign in to Azure

Sign in to the Azure portal at [https://portal.azure.com](https://portal.azure.com).

## Create an AKS cluster

To create an AKS cluster, complete the following steps:

1. On the Azure portal menu or from the **Home** page, select **Create a resource**.

2. Select **Containers** >  **Kubernetes Service**.

3. On the **Basics** page, configure the following options:
    - **Project details**: Select an Azure **Subscription**, then select or create an Azure **Resource group**, such as *myResourceGroup*.
    - **Cluster details**: Enter a **Kubernetes cluster name**, such as *myAKSCluster*. Select a **Region**, **Kubernetes version**, and **DNS name prefix** for the AKS cluster.
    - **Primary node pool**: Select a VM **Node size** for the AKS nodes. The VM size *can't* be changed once an AKS cluster has been deployed. 
            - Select the number of nodes to deploy into the cluster. For this quickstart, set **Node count** to *1*. Node count *can* be adjusted after the cluster has been deployed.
    
    ![Create AKS cluster - provide basic information](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/create-cluster-basics.png)

    Select **Next: Scale** when complete.

4. On the **Scale** page, keep the default options. At the bottom of the screen, click **Next: Authentication**.
    > [!CAUTION]
    > Creating new AAD Service Principals may take multiple minutes to propagate and become available causing Service Principal not found errors and validation failures in Azure portal. If you hit this please visit [here](troubleshooting.md#received-an-error-saying-my-service-principal-wasnt-found-or-is-invalid-when-i-try-to-create-a-new-cluster) for mitigation.

5. On the **Authentication** page, configure the following options:
    - Create a new service principal by leaving the **Service Principal** field with **(new) default service principal**. Or you can choose *Configure service principal* to use an existing one. If you use an existing one, you will need to provide the SPN client ID and secret.
    - Enable the option for Kubernetes role-based access control (RBAC). This will provide more fine-grained control over access to the Kubernetes resources deployed in your AKS cluster.

    Alternatively, you can use a managed identity instead of a service principal. See [use managed identities](use-managed-identity.md) for more information.

By default, *Basic* networking is used, and Azure Monitor for containers is enabled. Click **Review + create** and then **Create** when validation completes.

It takes a few minutes to create the AKS cluster. When your deployment is complete, click **Go to resource**, or  browse to the AKS cluster resource group, such as *myResourceGroup*, and select the AKS resource, such as *myAKSCluster*. The AKS cluster dashboard is shown, as in this example:

![Example AKS dashboard in the Azure portal](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/aks-portal-dashboard.png)

## Connect to the cluster

To manage a Kubernetes cluster, you use [kubectl][kubectl], the Kubernetes command-line client. The `kubectl` client is pre-installed in the Azure Cloud Shell.

Open Cloud Shell using the `>_` button on the top of the Azure portal.

![Open the Azure Cloud Shell in the portal](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/aks-cloud-shell.png)

To configure `kubectl` to connect to your Kubernetes cluster, use the [az aks get-credentials][az-aks-get-credentials] command. This command downloads credentials and configures the Kubernetes CLI to use them. The following example gets credentials for the cluster name *myAKSCluster* in the resource group named *myResourceGroup*:

```azurecli
az aks get-credentials --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myAKSCluster
```

To verify the connection to your cluster, use the [kubectl get][kubectl-get] command to return a list of the cluster nodes.

```console
kubectl get nodes
```

The following example output shows the single node created in the previous steps. Make sure that the status of the node is *Ready*:

```output
NAME                       STATUS    ROLES     AGE       VERSION
aks-agentpool-14693408-0   Ready     agent     15m       v1.11.5
```

## Run the application

A Kubernetes manifest file defines a desired state for the cluster, such as what container images to run. In this quickstart, a manifest is used to create all objects needed to run the Azure Vote application. This manifest includes two [Kubernetes deployments][kubernetes-deployment] - one for the sample Azure Vote Python applications, and the other for a Redis instance. Two [Kubernetes Services][kubernetes-service] are also created - an internal service for the Redis instance, and an external service to access the Azure Vote application from the internet.

In the Cloud Shell, use an editor to create a file named `azure-vote.yaml`, such as `code azure-vote.yaml`, `nano azure-vote.yaml` or `vi azure-vote.yaml`. Then copy in the following YAML definition:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: azure-vote-back
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: azure-vote-back
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: azure-vote-back
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        "beta.kubernetes.io/os": linux
      containers:
      - name: azure-vote-back
        image: redis
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 128Mi
          limits:
            cpu: 250m
            memory: 256Mi
        ports:
        - containerPort: 6379
          name: redis
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: azure-vote-back
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 6379
  selector:
    app: azure-vote-back
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: azure-vote-front
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: azure-vote-front
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: azure-vote-front
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        "beta.kubernetes.io/os": linux
      containers:
      - name: azure-vote-front
        image: mcr.microsoft.com/azuredocs/azure-vote-front:v1
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 128Mi
          limits:
            cpu: 250m
            memory: 256Mi
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        env:
        - name: REDIS
          value: "azure-vote-back"
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: azure-vote-front
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
  - port: 80
  selector:
    app: azure-vote-front
```

Deploy the application using the [kubectl apply][kubectl-apply] command and specify the name of your YAML manifest:

```console
kubectl apply -f azure-vote.yaml
```

The following example output shows the Deployments and Services created successfully:

```output
deployment "azure-vote-back" created
service "azure-vote-back" created
deployment "azure-vote-front" created
service "azure-vote-front" created
```

## Test the application

When the application runs, a Kubernetes service exposes the application front end to the internet. This process can take a few minutes to complete.

To monitor progress, use the [kubectl get service][kubectl-get] command with the `--watch` argument.

```console
kubectl get service azure-vote-front --watch
```

Initially the *EXTERNAL-IP* for the *azure-vote-front* service is shown as *pending*.

```output
NAME               TYPE           CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)        AGE
azure-vote-front   LoadBalancer   10.0.37.27   <pending>     80:30572/TCP   6s
```

When the *EXTERNAL-IP* address changes from *pending* to an actual public IP address, use `CTRL-C` to stop the `kubectl` watch process. The following example output shows a valid public IP address assigned to the service:

```output
azure-vote-front   LoadBalancer   10.0.37.27   52.179.23.131   80:30572/TCP   2m
```

To see the Azure Vote app in action, open a web browser to the external IP address of your service.

![Image of browsing to Azure Vote sample application](media/container-service-kubernetes-walkthrough/azure-voting-application.png)

## Monitor health and logs

When you created the cluster, Azure Monitor for containers was enabled. This monitoring feature provides health metrics for both the AKS cluster and pods running on the cluster.

It may take a few minutes for this data to populate in the Azure portal. To see current status, uptime, and resource usage for the Azure Vote pods, browse back to the AKS resource in the Azure portal, such as *myAKSCluster*. You can then access the health status as follows:

1. Under **Monitoring** on the left-hand side, choose **Insights**
1. Across the top, choose to **+ Add Filter**
1. Select *Namespace* as the property, then choose *\<All but kube-system\>*
1. Choose to view the **Containers**.

The *azure-vote-back* and *azure-vote-front* containers are displayed, as shown in the following example:

![View the health of running containers in AKS](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/monitor-containers.png)

To see logs for the `azure-vote-front` pod, select the **View container logs** from the drop down of the containers list. These logs include the *stdout* and *stderr* streams from the container.

![View the containers logs in AKS](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/monitor-container-logs.png)

## Delete cluster

When the cluster is no longer needed, delete the cluster resource, which deletes all associated resources. This operation can be completed in the Azure portal by selecting the **Delete** button on the AKS cluster dashboard. Alternatively, the [az aks delete][az-aks-delete] command can be used in the Cloud Shell:

```azurecli
az aks delete --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myAKSCluster --no-wait
```

> [!NOTE]
> When you delete the cluster, the Azure Active Directory service principal used by the AKS cluster is not removed. For steps on how to remove the service principal, see [AKS service principal considerations and deletion][sp-delete]. If you used a managed identity, the identity is managed by the platform and does not require removal.

## Get the code

In this quickstart, pre-created container images were used to create a Kubernetes deployment. The related application code, Dockerfile, and Kubernetes manifest file are available on GitHub.

[https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-voting-app-redis][azure-vote-app]

## Next steps

In this quickstart, you deployed a Kubernetes cluster and deployed a multi-container application to it.

To learn more about AKS, and walk through a complete code to deployment example, continue to the Kubernetes cluster tutorial.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [AKS tutorial][aks-tutorial]

<!-- LINKS - external -->
[azure-vote-app]: https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-voting-app-redis.git
[kubectl]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl/
[kubectl-apply]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#apply
[kubectl-get]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#get
[kubernetes-documentation]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/

<!-- LINKS - internal -->
[kubernetes-concepts]: concepts-clusters-workloads.md
[az-aks-get-credentials]: /cli/azure/aks?view=azure-cli-latest#az-aks-get-credentials
[az-aks-delete]: /cli/azure/aks#az-aks-delete
[aks-monitor]: ../azure-monitor/insights/container-insights-overview.md
[aks-network]: ./concepts-network.md
[aks-tutorial]: ./tutorial-kubernetes-prepare-app.md
[http-routing]: ./http-application-routing.md
[sp-delete]: kubernetes-service-principal.md#additional-considerations
[azure-dev-spaces]: ../dev-spaces/index.yml
[kubernetes-deployment]: concepts-clusters-workloads.md#deployments-and-yaml-manifests
[kubernetes-service]: concepts-network.md#services

Commit message:

add note about az login

articles/aks/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal.md, after:

---
title: Create an AKS cluster in the portal
titleSuffix: Azure Kubernetes Service
description: Learn how to quickly create a Kubernetes cluster, deploy an application, and monitor performance in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) using the Azure portal.
services: container-service
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 09/11/2020

ms.custom: mvc, seo-javascript-october2019

#Customer intent: As a developer or cluster operator, I want to quickly create an AKS cluster and deploy an application so that I can see how to run and monitor applications using the managed Kubernetes service in Azure.
---

# Quickstart: Deploy an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster using the Azure portal

Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is a managed Kubernetes service that lets you quickly deploy and manage clusters. In this quickstart, you deploy an AKS cluster using the Azure portal. A multi-container application that includes a web front end and a Redis instance is run in the cluster. You then see how to monitor the health of the cluster and pods that run your application.

![Image of browsing to Azure Vote sample application](media/container-service-kubernetes-walkthrough/azure-voting-application.png)

This quickstart assumes a basic understanding of Kubernetes concepts. For more information, see [Kubernetes core concepts for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)][kubernetes-concepts].

If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) before you begin.

## Sign in to Azure

Sign in to the Azure portal at [https://portal.azure.com](https://portal.azure.com).

## Create an AKS cluster

To create an AKS cluster, complete the following steps:

1. On the Azure portal menu or from the **Home** page, select **Create a resource**.

2. Select **Containers** >  **Kubernetes Service**.

3. On the **Basics** page, configure the following options:
    - **Project details**: Select an Azure **Subscription**, then select or create an Azure **Resource group**, such as *myResourceGroup*.
    - **Cluster details**: Enter a **Kubernetes cluster name**, such as *myAKSCluster*. Select a **Region**, **Kubernetes version**, and **DNS name prefix** for the AKS cluster.
    - **Primary node pool**: Select a VM **Node size** for the AKS nodes. The VM size *can't* be changed once an AKS cluster has been deployed. 
            - Select the number of nodes to deploy into the cluster. For this quickstart, set **Node count** to *1*. Node count *can* be adjusted after the cluster has been deployed.
    
    ![Create AKS cluster - provide basic information](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/create-cluster-basics.png)

    Select **Next: Scale** when complete.

4. On the **Scale** page, keep the default options. At the bottom of the screen, click **Next: Authentication**.
    > [!CAUTION]
    > Creating new AAD Service Principals may take multiple minutes to propagate and become available causing Service Principal not found errors and validation failures in Azure portal. If you hit this please visit [here](troubleshooting.md#received-an-error-saying-my-service-principal-wasnt-found-or-is-invalid-when-i-try-to-create-a-new-cluster) for mitigation.

5. On the **Authentication** page, configure the following options:
    - Create a new service principal by leaving the **Service Principal** field with **(new) default service principal**. Or you can choose *Configure service principal* to use an existing one. If you use an existing one, you will need to provide the SPN client ID and secret.
    - Enable the option for Kubernetes role-based access control (RBAC). This will provide more fine-grained control over access to the Kubernetes resources deployed in your AKS cluster.

    Alternatively, you can use a managed identity instead of a service principal. See [use managed identities](use-managed-identity.md) for more information.

By default, *Basic* networking is used, and Azure Monitor for containers is enabled. Click **Review + create** and then **Create** when validation completes.

It takes a few minutes to create the AKS cluster. When your deployment is complete, click **Go to resource**, or  browse to the AKS cluster resource group, such as *myResourceGroup*, and select the AKS resource, such as *myAKSCluster*. The AKS cluster dashboard is shown, as in this example:

![Example AKS dashboard in the Azure portal](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/aks-portal-dashboard.png)

## Connect to the cluster

To manage a Kubernetes cluster, you use [kubectl][kubectl], the Kubernetes command-line client. The `kubectl` client is pre-installed in the Azure Cloud Shell.

Open Cloud Shell using the `>_` button on the top of the Azure portal.

![Open the Azure Cloud Shell in the portal](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/aks-cloud-shell.png)

To configure `kubectl` to connect to your Kubernetes cluster from a client machine, use the [az aks get-credentials][az-aks-get-credentials] command. Connect to your Azure account using `az login`. Then use this command to download credentials and configure the Kubernetes CLI to use them. The following example gets credentials for the cluster name *myAKSCluster* in the resource group named *myResourceGroup*:

```azurecli
az aks get-credentials --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myAKSCluster
```

To verify the connection to your cluster, use the [kubectl get][kubectl-get] command to return a list of the cluster nodes.

```console
kubectl get nodes
```

The following example output shows the single node created in the previous steps. Make sure that the status of the node is *Ready*:

```output
NAME                       STATUS    ROLES     AGE       VERSION
aks-agentpool-14693408-0   Ready     agent     15m       v1.11.5
```

## Run the application

A Kubernetes manifest file defines a desired state for the cluster, such as what container images to run. In this quickstart, a manifest is used to create all objects needed to run the Azure Vote application. This manifest includes two [Kubernetes deployments][kubernetes-deployment] - one for the sample Azure Vote Python applications, and the other for a Redis instance. Two [Kubernetes Services][kubernetes-service] are also created - an internal service for the Redis instance, and an external service to access the Azure Vote application from the internet.

In the Cloud Shell, use an editor to create a file named `azure-vote.yaml`, such as `code azure-vote.yaml`, `nano azure-vote.yaml` or `vi azure-vote.yaml`. Then copy in the following YAML definition:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: azure-vote-back
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: azure-vote-back
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: azure-vote-back
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        "beta.kubernetes.io/os": linux
      containers:
      - name: azure-vote-back
        image: redis
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 128Mi
          limits:
            cpu: 250m
            memory: 256Mi
        ports:
        - containerPort: 6379
          name: redis
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: azure-vote-back
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 6379
  selector:
    app: azure-vote-back
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: azure-vote-front
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: azure-vote-front
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: azure-vote-front
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        "beta.kubernetes.io/os": linux
      containers:
      - name: azure-vote-front
        image: mcr.microsoft.com/azuredocs/azure-vote-front:v1
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 128Mi
          limits:
            cpu: 250m
            memory: 256Mi
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        env:
        - name: REDIS
          value: "azure-vote-back"
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: azure-vote-front
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
  - port: 80
  selector:
    app: azure-vote-front
```

Deploy the application using the [kubectl apply][kubectl-apply] command and specify the name of your YAML manifest:

```console
kubectl apply -f azure-vote.yaml
```

The following example output shows the Deployments and Services created successfully:

```output
deployment "azure-vote-back" created
service "azure-vote-back" created
deployment "azure-vote-front" created
service "azure-vote-front" created
```

## Test the application

When the application runs, a Kubernetes service exposes the application front end to the internet. This process can take a few minutes to complete.

To monitor progress, use the [kubectl get service][kubectl-get] command with the `--watch` argument.

```console
kubectl get service azure-vote-front --watch
```

Initially the *EXTERNAL-IP* for the *azure-vote-front* service is shown as *pending*.

```output
NAME               TYPE           CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)        AGE
azure-vote-front   LoadBalancer   10.0.37.27   <pending>     80:30572/TCP   6s
```

When the *EXTERNAL-IP* address changes from *pending* to an actual public IP address, use `CTRL-C` to stop the `kubectl` watch process. The following example output shows a valid public IP address assigned to the service:

```output
azure-vote-front   LoadBalancer   10.0.37.27   52.179.23.131   80:30572/TCP   2m
```

To see the Azure Vote app in action, open a web browser to the external IP address of your service.

![Image of browsing to Azure Vote sample application](media/container-service-kubernetes-walkthrough/azure-voting-application.png)

## Monitor health and logs

When you created the cluster, Azure Monitor for containers was enabled. This monitoring feature provides health metrics for both the AKS cluster and pods running on the cluster.

It may take a few minutes for this data to populate in the Azure portal. To see current status, uptime, and resource usage for the Azure Vote pods, browse back to the AKS resource in the Azure portal, such as *myAKSCluster*. You can then access the health status as follows:

1. Under **Monitoring** on the left-hand side, choose **Insights**
1. Across the top, choose to **+ Add Filter**
1. Select *Namespace* as the property, then choose *\<All but kube-system\>*
1. Choose to view the **Containers**.

The *azure-vote-back* and *azure-vote-front* containers are displayed, as shown in the following example:

![View the health of running containers in AKS](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/monitor-containers.png)

To see logs for the `azure-vote-front` pod, select the **View container logs** from the drop down of the containers list. These logs include the *stdout* and *stderr* streams from the container.

![View the containers logs in AKS](media/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal/monitor-container-logs.png)

## Delete cluster

When the cluster is no longer needed, delete the cluster resource, which deletes all associated resources. This operation can be completed in the Azure portal by selecting the **Delete** button on the AKS cluster dashboard. Alternatively, the [az aks delete][az-aks-delete] command can be used in the Cloud Shell:

```azurecli
az aks delete --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myAKSCluster --no-wait
```

> [!NOTE]
> When you delete the cluster, the Azure Active Directory service principal used by the AKS cluster is not removed. For steps on how to remove the service principal, see [AKS service principal considerations and deletion][sp-delete]. If you used a managed identity, the identity is managed by the platform and does not require removal.

## Get the code

In this quickstart, pre-created container images were used to create a Kubernetes deployment. The related application code, Dockerfile, and Kubernetes manifest file are available on GitHub.

[https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-voting-app-redis][azure-vote-app]

## Next steps

In this quickstart, you deployed a Kubernetes cluster and deployed a multi-container application to it.

To learn more about AKS, and walk through a complete code to deployment example, continue to the Kubernetes cluster tutorial.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [AKS tutorial][aks-tutorial]

<!-- LINKS - external -->
[azure-vote-app]: https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-voting-app-redis.git
[kubectl]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl/
[kubectl-apply]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#apply
[kubectl-get]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#get
[kubernetes-documentation]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/

<!-- LINKS - internal -->
[kubernetes-concepts]: concepts-clusters-workloads.md
[az-aks-get-credentials]: /cli/azure/aks?view=azure-cli-latest#az-aks-get-credentials
[az-aks-delete]: /cli/azure/aks#az-aks-delete
[aks-monitor]: ../azure-monitor/insights/container-insights-overview.md
[aks-network]: ./concepts-network.md
[aks-tutorial]: ./tutorial-kubernetes-prepare-app.md
[http-routing]: ./http-application-routing.md
[sp-delete]: kubernetes-service-principal.md#additional-considerations
[azure-dev-spaces]: ../dev-spaces/index.yml
[kubernetes-deployment]: concepts-clusters-workloads.md#deployments-and-yaml-manifests
[kubernetes-service]: concepts-network.md#services
