---
title: Monitoring Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
author: bwren
ms.author: bwren
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: subject-monitoring
ms.date: 07/07/2023
---


# Monitoring Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation. This article describes the monitoring data generated by AKS and analyzed with [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md). If you are unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md).


> [!IMPORTANT]
> This article provides basic information for getting started monitoring an AKS cluster. For complete monitoring of Kuberenetes clusters in Azure and other clouds using services such as [Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus](../azure-monitor/essentials/prometheus-metrics-overview.md) and [Container Insights](../azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-overview.md), see [Configure Kubernetes monitoring using Azure services](../azure-monitor/containers/monitor-kubernetes-configure.md).
> 

## Monitoring overview page in Azure portal

The **Monitoring** tab on the **Overview** page in the Azure portal for each AKS cluster includes graphs with common metrics for the cluster separated by node pool. Click on any of these graphs to further analyze the data in [Metrics explorer](#analyzing-metrics).

:::image type="content" source="media/monitor-aks/overview.png" alt-text="Screenshot of AKS overview page." lightbox="media/monitor-aks/overview.png":::

## Access monitoring features

Access monitoring features for all AKS clusters in your subscription from the **Monitoring** menu in the Azure portal, or for a single AKS cluster from the **Monitor** section of the **Kubernetes services** menu. The following image shows the **Monitoring** menu for your AKS cluster and describes the different options:

:::image type="content" source="media/monitor-aks/monitoring-menu.png" alt-text="AKS Monitoring menu" lightbox="media/monitor-aks/monitoring-menu.png":::

| Menu option | Description |
|:---|:---|
| Insights | Opens [Container Insights](#container-insights) for the current cluster. Select **Containers** from the **Monitor** menu to open Container Insights for all clusters.  |
| Alerts | Views [alerts](#alerts) for the current cluster.   |
| Metrics | Open [metrics explorer](#analyzing-metrics) with the scope set to the current cluster. |
| Diagnostic settings | Create [diagnostic settings](#collection-and-routing) for the cluster to collect control plane logs for the cluster. |
| Advisor | Recommendations for the current cluster from [Azure Advisor](../advisor/advisor-overview.md). |
| Logs | Open [Log Analytics](#analyzing-logs) with the scope set to the current cluster to analyze control plane logs and data collected by Container insights. |
| Workbooks | Open workbook gallery for the Kubernetes service. |


## Container insights

Some services in Azure have special pre-built features in Azure Monitor that provide additional monitoring for the service. These features are called "insights". [Container insights](../azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-overview.md) uses a containerized version of the [Azure Monitor agent](../azure-monitor/agents/agents-overview.md) to collect stdout/stderr logs, performance metrics, and Kubernetes events from each node in your cluster supporting a [variety of monitoring scenarios for AKS clusters](../azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-overview.md#features-of-container-insights).

You have the option to enable Container insights for your cluster when you create your AKS cluster, or see [Enable Container insights for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster](../azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-enable-aks.md) for other options to enable it.

## Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is a cloud-native metrics solution from the Cloud Native Compute Foundation and the most common tool used for collecting and analyzing metric data from Kubernetes clusters. [Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus](../azure-monitor/essentials/prometheus-metrics-overview.md) is a fully managed Prometheus-compatible monitoring solution in Azure. You can analyze data collected in Prometheus with [Azure Managed Grafana](../managed-grafana/overview.md) using a variety of pre-built dashboards for kubernetes clusters.

You have the option to enable Prometheus for your cluster when you create your AKS cluster, or see [Collect Prometheus metrics from an AKS cluster](../azure-monitor/essentials/prometheus-metrics-enable.md) for other options to enable it.

## Monitoring data 

In addition to data collected by Container insights and Prometheus, AKS collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md#monitor-data-from-azure-resources). See [Monitoring AKS data reference](monitor-aks-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs created by AKS.


## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting. Control plane logs for AKS clusters are implemented as [resource logs](../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs.md) in Azure Monitor. Resource Logs are not collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations. You'll typically send them to a Log Analytics workspace, which is where the data for Container insights is stored.

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](../azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for AKS are listed in [AKS monitoring data reference](monitor-aks-reference.md#resource-logs).

AKS supports either [Azure diagnostics mode](../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs.md#azure-diagnostics-mode) or [resource-specific mode](../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs.md#resource-specific-mode) for resource logs. Resource-specific mode is recommended for AKS since this sends the data to individual tables in the Log Analytics workspace. This makes the data easier to query and gives you the option of configuring the tables for [basic logs](../azure-monitor/logs/basic-logs-configure.md).

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for AKS with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started) for details on using this tool. For a list of the platform metrics collected for AKS, see [Monitoring AKS data reference metrics](monitor-aks-reference.md#metrics). For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported).


## Analyzing logs

Data in [Azure Monitor Logs](../azure-monitor/logs/data-platform-logs.md) is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

### Resource logs
All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema). The schema for AKS resource logs is found in the [AKS Data Reference](monitor-aks-reference.md#schemas) 


### Activity logs
The [Activity log](../azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log) is a type of platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics. For a list of the types of resource logs collected for AKS, see [Monitoring AKS data reference](monitor-aks-reference.md#resource-logs).


### Sample Kusto queries

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you select **Logs** from the menu for an AKS cluster, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current cluster. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other clusters or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](../azure-monitor/logs/scope.md) for details.

For a list of common queries for AKS, see the [Log Analytics queries interface](../azure-monitor/logs/queries.md#queries-interface). Select resource type **Kubernetes Services** for queries that you can load directly into Log Analytics.

### Resource logs

If the [diagnostic setting for your cluster ](#collection-and-routing) uses Azure diagnostics mode, the resource logs are stored in the [AzureDiagnostics](/azure/azure-monitor/reference/tables/azurediagnostics) table. You can distinguish different logs with the **Category** column. For a description of each category, see [AKS reference resource logs](../../aks/monitor-aks-reference.md).

**API server logs**

```kusto
AzureDiagnostics 
| where Category == "kube-apiserver"
```

**Count logs for each category**

```kusto
AzureDiagnostics
| where ResourceType == "MANAGEDCLUSTERS"
| summarize count() by Category
```

### Container logs

## Alerts

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric-overview.md), [logs](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-unified-log.md), and the [activity log](../azure-monitor/alerts/activity-log-alerts.md). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks.

Use [Azure Monitor Application Insights](../azure-monitor/overview#application-insights) for alerting on the 

The following table lists common and recommended alert rules for [service-name].

| Alert type | Condition | Description  |
|:---|:---|:---|
| | | |
| | | |

## Next steps

<!-- Add additional links. You can change the wording of these and add more if useful.   -->

- See [Monitoring [service-name] data reference](monitor-aks-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by [service name].
*>.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource) for details on monitoring Azure resources.


