---
title: 'Monitoring Azure VPN Gateway'
description: Learn how to view VPN Gateway metrics using Azure Monitor.
author: cherylmc
ms.service: vpn-gateway
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 07/25/2022
ms.author: cherylmc

---
# Monitoring VPN Gateway

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation.

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure VPN Gateway. VPN Gateway uses [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md). If you're unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md).

## Monitoring data

VPN Gateway collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md).

See [Monitoring VPN Gateway data reference](monitor-vpn-gateway-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs metrics created by VPN Gateway.

## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

Resource Logs aren't collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](../azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings.md) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for VPN Gateway are listed in [VPN Gateway monitoring data reference](monitor-vpn-gateway-reference.md).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Enabling these settings requires additional Azure services (storage account, event hub, or Log Analytics), which may increase your cost. To calculate an estimated cost, visit the [Azure pricing calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator).

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for VPN Gateway with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Analyze metrics with Azure Monitor metrics explorer](../azure-monitor/essentials/analyze-metrics.md) for details on using this tool.

For a list of the platform metrics collected for VPN Gateway, see [Monitoring VPN Gateway data reference metrics](monitor-vpn-gateway-reference.md#metrics).  

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported.md).

## Analyzing logs

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema.md).

The [Activity log](../azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log.md) is a type of platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.

For a list of the tables used by Azure Monitor Logs and queryable by Log Analytics, see [Monitoring VPN Gateway data reference](monitor-vpn-gateway-reference.md).

To analyze logs, go to your virtual network gateway. In the **Essentials** section of the page, select **Logs -> View in Azure Monitor**.

## Alerts

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-types.md#metric-alerts), [logs](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-types.md#log-alerts), and the [activity log](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-types.md#activity-log-alerts). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks. You can set up alerts for virtual network gateways of the "VPN" type.

To create a metric alert, see [Tutorial: Create a metric alert for an Azure resource](../azure-monitor/alerts/tutorial-metric-alert.md). To create a log query alert, see [Tutorial: Create a log query alert for an Azure resource](../azure-monitor/alerts/tutorial-log-alert.md).

## Next steps

* See [Monitoring VPN Gateway data reference](monitor-vpn-gateway-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by VPN Gateway.
* See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md) for details on monitoring Azure resources.