---
title: "How preparing a project for Azure Dev Spaces works"
services: azure-dev-spaces
ms.date: 03/24/2020
ms.topic: "conceptual"
description: "Describes how preparing your project with Azure Dev Spaces works"
keywords: "azds.yaml, Azure Dev Spaces, Dev Spaces, Docker, Kubernetes, Azure, AKS, Azure Kubernetes Service, containers"
---

# How preparing a project for Azure Dev Spaces works

Azure Dev Spaces provides you with multiple ways to rapidly iterate and debug Kubernetes applications and collaborate with your team on an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster. Dev Spaces can generate Dockerfiles and Helm charts for your project. Dev Spaces also creates and uses a configuration file for deploying, running, and debugging your Kubernetes applications in AKS. All of these files reside with your application's code and can be added to your version control system.

This article describes what happens you prepare your project for running in AKS with Dev Spaces.

## Prepare your code

In order to run your application in a dev space, it needs to be containerized, and you need to define how it should be deployed to Kubernetes. To containerize your application, you need a Dockerfile. To define how your application is deployed to Kubernetes, you need a [Helm chart](https://docs.helm.sh/). To assist in creating both the Dockerfile and Helm chart for your application, the client-side tools provide the `prep` command:

```cmd
azds prep --enable-ingress
```

The `prep` command will look at the files in your project and try to create the Dockerfile and Helm chart for running your application in Kubernetes. Currently, the `prep` command will generate a Dockerfile and Helm chart with the following languages:

* Java
* Node.js
* .NET Core

You *must* run the `prep` command from a directory that contains source code. Running the `prep` command from the correct directory allows the client-side tooling to identify the language and create an appropriate Dockerfile to containerize your application. You can also run the `prep` command from a directory that contains a *pom.xml* file for Java projects.

If you run the `prep` command from directory that does not contain source code, the client-side tooling will not generate a Dockerfile. It will also display an error saying: *Dockerfile could not be generated due to unsupported language*. This error also occurs if the client-side tooling does not recognize the project type.

When you run the `prep` command, you have the option of specifying the `--enable-ingress` flag. This flag tells the controller to create an internet-accessible endpoint for this service. If you do not specify this flag, the service is only accessible from within the cluster or using the localhost tunnel created by the client-side tooling. You can enable or disable this behavior after running the `prep` command by updating the generated Helm chart.

The `prep` command will not replace any existing Dockerfiles or Helm charts you have in your project. If an existing Dockerfile or Helm chart uses the same naming convention as the files generated by the `prep` command, the `prep` command will skip generating those files. Otherwise, the `prep` command will generate its own Dockerfile or Helm chart along side the existing files.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Azure Dev Spaces uses the Dockerfile and Helm chart for your project to build and run your code, but you can modify these files if you want to change how the project is built and run.

The `prep` command will also generate an `azds.yaml` file at the root of your project. Azure Dev Spaces uses this file to build, install, configure, and run your application. This configuration file lists the location of your Dockerfile and Helm chart and also provides additional configuration on top of those artifacts.

Here is an example azds.yaml file created using [.NET Core sample application](https://github.com/Azure/dev-spaces/tree/master/samples/dotnetcore/getting-started/webfrontend):

```yaml
kind: helm-release
apiVersion: 1.1
build:
  context: .
  dockerfile: Dockerfile
install:
  chart: charts/webfrontend
  values:
  - values.dev.yaml?
  - secrets.dev.yaml?
  set:
    replicaCount: 1
    image:
      repository: webfrontend
      tag: $(tag)
      pullPolicy: Never
    ingress:
      annotations:
        kubernetes.io/ingress.class: traefik-azds
      hosts:
        # This expands to [space.s.][rootSpace.]webfrontend.<random suffix>.<region>.azds.io
        # Customize the public URL by changing the 'webfrontend' text between the $(rootSpacePrefix) and $(hostSuffix) tokens
        # For more information see https://aka.ms/devspaces/routing
        - $(spacePrefix)$(rootSpacePrefix)webfrontend$(hostSuffix)
configurations:
  develop:
    build:
      dockerfile: Dockerfile.develop
      useGitIgnore: true
      args:
        BUILD_CONFIGURATION: ${BUILD_CONFIGURATION:-Debug}
    container:
      sync:
      - "**/Pages/**"
      - "**/Views/**"
      - "**/wwwroot/**"
      - "!**/*.{sln,csproj}"
      command: [dotnet, run, --no-restore, --no-build, --no-launch-profile, -c, "${BUILD_CONFIGURATION:-Debug}"]
      iterate:
        processesToKill: [dotnet, vsdbg]
        buildCommands:
        - [dotnet, build, --no-restore, -c, "${BUILD_CONFIGURATION:-Debug}"]
```

The `azds.yaml` file generated by the `prep` command is intended to work for simple, single project development scenario. If your specific project has increased complexity, you may need to update this file after running the `prep` command. For example, your project may require some changes to your build or launch process based on your development or debugging needs. You also might have multiple applications in your project, which require multiple build processes or a different build content.

## Next steps

To learn more about running your code in your dev space, see [How running your code with Azure Dev Spaces works][how-it-works-up].

To get started using Azure Dev Spaces to prepare your project for Azure Dev Space, see the following quickstarts:

* [Rapidly iterate and debug with Visual Studio Code and Java][quickstart-java]
* [Rapidly iterate and debug with Visual Studio Code and .NET][quickstart-netcore]
* [Rapidly iterate and debug with Visual Studio Code and Node.js][quickstart-node]
* [Rapidly iterate and debug with Visual Studio and .NET Core][quickstart-vs]
* [Using the CLI to develop an application on Kubernetes][quickstart-cli]

[how-it-works-up]: how-dev-spaces-works-up.md
[quickstart-cli]: quickstart-cli.md
[quickstart-java]: quickstart-java.md
[quickstart-netcore]: quickstart-netcore.md
[quickstart-node]: quickstart-nodejs.md
[quickstart-vs]: quickstart-netcore-visualstudio.md