---
title: Azure Communication Services Call Automation how-to for securing webhook endpoint 
titleSuffix: An Azure Communication Services how-to document
description: Provides a how-to guide on securing deliver the delivery of incoming call and callback event
author: fanche

ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: azure-communication-services
ms.subservice: call-automation
ms.date: 04/13/2023
ms.author: askaur
manager: jasha
ms.custom: public_preview
services: azure-communication-services
---

# How to secure webhook endpoint

[!INCLUDE [Public Preview Notice](../../includes/public-preview-include.md)]

Securing the delivery of messages from end to end is crucial for ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and trustworthiness of sensitive information transmitted between systems. Your ability and willingness to trust information received from a remote system relies on the sender providing valid proof they are who they say they are. Call Automation has two ways of communicating events that can be secured; the shared IncomingCall event sent by Azure Event Grid, and all other mid-call events sent by the Call Automation platform via webhook.

## Incoming Call Event
Azure Communication Services relies on Azure Event Grid subscriptions to deliver the [IncomingCall event](../../concepts/call-automation/incoming-call-notification.md). You can refer to the Azure Event Grid team for their [documentation about how to secure a webhook subscription](../../../event-grid/secure-webhook-delivery.md).

## Call Automation webhook events

[Call Automation events](../../concepts/call-automation/call-automation.md#call-automation-webhook-events) are sent to the webhook callback URI specified when you answer a call, or place a new outbound call. Your callback URI must be a public endpoint with a valid HTTPS certificate, DNS name, and IP address with the correct firewall ports open to enable Call Automation to reach it. This anonymous public webserver could create a security risk if you do not take the necessary steps to secure it from unauthorized access.

A common way you can improve this security is by implementing an API KEY mechanism where the key is generated by your webserver at runtime and provided in the callback URI as a query parameter when you answer or create a call. The webhook callback from Call Automation will contain your key which can be verified by your webserver before allowing access. This mechanism alone is often not enough for some customers and in some cases the verification of the inbound webhook is done by a perimeter network device; separate from the webserver/application itself.

## Improving Call Automation webhook callback security

Each mid-call webhook callback sent by Call Automation uses a signed JSON Web Token (JWT) in the Authentication header of the inbound HTTPS request. You can use standard Open ID Connect (OIDC) JWT validation techniques to ensure the integrity of the token as follows. The lifetime of the JWT is five (5) minutes and a new token is created for every event sent to the callback URI.

1. Obtain the Open ID configuration URL: https://acscallautomation.communication.azure.com/calling/.well-known/acsopenidconfiguration
2. Install the [Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer Nuget](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer) package.
3. Configure your application to validate the JWT using the NuGet package and the configuration of your ACS resource. You will need the `audience` values as it will be present in the JWT payload.
4. Validate the issuer, audience and the JWT token.
- The audience is your ACS resource id you used to setup your Call Automation client. Refer [here](../../quickstarts/voice-video-calling/get-resource-id.md) about how to get it.
- The JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) endpoint in the OpenId configuration contains the keys used to validate the JWT token. If the signature is valid and the token has not expired(within 5 minutes from the token is generated), then the token is considered valid and can be used to authorize the client.

Below is a sample code by using `Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocols.OpenIdConnect` to validate webhook payload
## [csharp](#tab/csharp)
```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer;
using Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocols;
using Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocols.OpenIdConnect;
using Microsoft.IdentityModel.Tokens;

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

builder.Services.AddEndpointsApiExplorer();
builder.Services.AddSwaggerGen();

// Add ACS CallAutomation OpenID configuration
var configurationManager = new ConfigurationManager<OpenIdConnectConfiguration>(
            builder.Configuration["OpenIdConfigUrl"],
            new OpenIdConnectConfigurationRetriever());
var configuration = configurationManager.GetConfigurationAsync().Result;

builder.Services.AddAuthentication(JwtBearerDefaults.AuthenticationScheme)
    .AddJwtBearer(options =>
    {
        options.Configuration = configuration;
        options.TokenValidationParameters = new TokenValidationParameters
        {
            ValidAudience = builder.Configuration["AllowedAudience"]
        };
    });

builder.Services.AddAuthorization();

var app = builder.Build();

// Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.UseSwagger();
    app.UseSwaggerUI();
}

app.UseHttpsRedirection();

app.MapPost("/api/callback", (HttpContext context) =>
{
    // Your implemenation on the callback event
    return Results.Ok();
})
.RequireAuthorization()
.WithOpenApi();

app.UseAuthentication();
app.UseAuthorization();

app.Run();

```

## Next steps
- Learn more about [How to control and steer calls with Call Automation](../call-automation/actions-for-call-control.md).