---
title: Monitoring Azure Functions
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure Functions
author: vraposo
ms.author: #Required; Microsoft alias of author; optional team alias.
ms.service: Azure Functions
ms.custom: subject-monitoring
ms.date: #Required; mm/dd/yyyy format.
---

# Monitoring Azure Functions

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation.

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Functions. Azure Functions uses [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md). If you are unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md).

## Monitoring data

Azure Functions collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md#monitoring-data-from-Azure-resources).

See [Monitoring *Azure Functions* data reference](monitor-functions-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs metrics created by Azure Functions.

## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.

Resource Logs are not collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](../azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings.md) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for *Azure Functions* are listed in [Azure Functions monitoring data reference](monitor-functions-reference.md#resource-logs).

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for *Azure Functions* with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started.md) for details on using this tool.

For a list of the platform metrics collected for Azure Functions, see [Monitoring *Azure Functions* data reference metrics](monitor-functions-reference.md#metrics).

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported.md).

<!-- Optional: Call out additional information to help your customers. For example, you can include additional information here about how to use metrics explorer specifically for your service. Remember that the UI is subject to change quite often so you will need to maintain these screenshots yourself if you add them in. -->

The following examples use Monitor Metrics to help estimate the cost of running your function app on a Consumption plan. To learn more about estimating Consumption plan costs, see [Estimating Consumption plan costs](functions-consumption-costs.md).

[!INCLUDE [functions-monitor-metrics-consumption](../../includes/functions-monitor-metrics-consumption.md)]  

## Analyzing logs

<!-- REQUIRED. Please keep headings in this order
If you don't support resource logs, say so. Some services may be only onboarded
to metrics and the activity log. -->

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema.md). The schema for Azure Functions resource logs is found in the [Azure Functions Data Reference](monitor-functions-reference.md#schemas)

The [Activity log](../azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log.md) is a type of platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.

For a list of the types of resource logs collected for Azure Functions, see [Monitoring Azure Functions data reference](monitor-functions-reference.md#resource-logs)

For a list of the tables used by Azure Monitor Logs and queryable by Log Analytics, see [Monitoring Azure Functions data reference](monitor-functions-reference.md#azure-monitor-logs-tables)

<!-- Optional: Call out additional information to help your customers. For eX-
ample, you can include additional information here about log usage or what logs
are most important. Remember that the UI is subject to change quite often so
you will need to maintain these screenshots yourself if you add them in. -->

<!-- TODO:glenn have you heard about any specific feedback that we should consider here? -->

### Sample Kusto queries

<!-- TODO:vraposo WIP -->

<!-- REQUIRED if you support logs. Please keep headings in this order -->
<!-- Add sample Log Analytics Kusto queries for your service. -->

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you select **Logs** from the [service-name] menu, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current [service name]. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other [service resource] or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/scope) for details.

<!-- REQUIRED: Include queries that are helpful for figuring out the health and
state of your service. Ideally, use some of these queries in the alerts sec-
tion. It's possible that some of your queries may be in the Log Analytics UI
(sample or example queries). Check if so. -->

Following are queries that you can use to help you monitor your [Service resource].

<!-- Put in a code section here. -->
```Kusto

```

## Alerts

<!-- TODO:glenn any requests here that you might know of? -->

<!-- SUGGESTED: Include useful alerts on metrics, logs, log conditions or ac-
tivity log. Ask your PMs if you don't know.
This information is the BIGGEST request we get in Azure Monitor so do not avoid
it long term. People don't know what to monitor for best results. Be prescrip-
tive
-->

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric-overview.md), [logs](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-unified-log.md), and the [activity log](../azure-monitor/alerts/activity-log-alerts.md). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks.

<!-- only include next line if applications run on your service and work with
App Insights. --> If you are creating or running an application which run on <*service*> [Azure Monitor Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/overview#application-insights) may offer additional types of alerts.
<!-- end -->

The following table lists common and recommended alert rules for [service-name].

<!-- Fill in the table with metric and log alerts that would be valuable for
your service. Change the format as necessary to make it more readable -->
| Alert type | Condition | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|
||||
||||

## Next steps

- See [Monitor Azure Functions](functions-monitoring.md) for details on how-to monitor a Function App.
- See [Monitoring Azure Functions data reference](monitor-functions-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure Functions.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md) for details on monitoring Azure resources.
- See [Analyze Azure Functions telemetry in Application Insights](analyze-telemetry-data.md) for details on how-to view and query the data being collected from a Function App.
