---
title: Using Monitor Metrics with Azure Functions
description: Learn how to use Azure Monitor Metrics to view and query for Azure Functions telemetry data collected by and stored in Azure Application Insights.
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 07/4/2021
# Customer intent: As a developer, I want to view and query the data being collected from my function app so I can know if it's running correctly and to make improvements.
---

# Using Azure Monitor Metric with Azure Functions

Azure Functions integrates with Azure Monitor Metrics to let you analyze the metrics generated by your function app during execution. To learn more, see the [Azure Monitor Metrics overview](../azure-monitor/essentials/data-platform-metrics.md). These metrics indicate how your function app is running on the App Service platform. You can review resource consumption data used to estimate consumption plan costs. To investigate detailed telemetry from your function executions, including log data, you should also use [Application Insights](functions-monitoring.md) in Azure Monitor. 

> [!NOTE]
> Azure Monitor Metrics is not currently supported when your function app runs on Linux in a Consumption plan.

## Available metrics

Azure Monitor collects numeric data from a set of monitored resources, which are entered into a time series database. Azure Monitor collects metrics specific to both Functions and the underlying App Service resources.   

### Functions-specific metrics

There are two metrics specific to Functions that are of interest:

| Metric | Description |
| ---- | ---- |
| **FunctionExecutionCount** | Function execution count indicates the number of times your function app has executed. This value correlates to the number of times a function runs in your app. |
| **FunctionExecutionUnits** | Function execution units are a combination of execution time and your memory usage.  Memory data isn't a metric currently available through Azure Monitor. However, if you want to optimize the memory usage of your app, can use the performance counter data collected by Application Insights. This metric isn't currently supported for Premium and Dedicated (App Service) plans running on Linux.|

These metrics are used specifically when [estimating Consumption plan costs](functions-consumption-costs.md). 

### General App Service metrics

Aside from function-specific metrics, the App Service platform implements more metrics, which you can use to monitor function apps. For the complete list, see [metrics available to App Service apps](../app-service/web-sites-monitor.md#understand-metrics).

## Accessing metrics

You can use either [Azure Monitor metrics explorer](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started.md) in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) or REST APIs to get Monitor Metrics data. 

The following examples use Monitor Metrics to help estimate the cost of running your function app on a Consumption plan. To learn more about estimating Consumption plan costs, see [Estimating Consumption plan costs](functions-consumption-costs.md).

[!INCLUDE [functions-monitor-metrics-consumption](../../includes/functions-monitor-metrics-consumption.md)]  

To learn more about using Monitor Explorer to view metrics, see [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started.md).

## Next steps

Learn more about monitoring Azure Functions:

+ [Monitor Azure Functions](functions-monitoring.md)
+ [Analyze Azure Functions telemetry in Application Insights](analyze-telemetry-data.md)
