---
title: Identity model
titleSuffix: An Azure Communication Services concept
description: Learn about the identities and access tokens
author: FarrukhGhaffar
manager: cassidyfein
services: azure-communication-services

ms.author: faghaffa
ms.date: 01/02/2024
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: azure-communication-services
ms.subservice: identity
---

# Identity model
Azure Communication Services is an identity-agnostic service, which offers multiple benefits:

- Reuse existing identities from your identity management system and simply map them with Azure Communication Services identities. 
- Provides integration flexibility as identity-agnostic model works well with your existing identity system.
- You can Keep your user's data, such as their name, private as you don't need to duplicate it in Azure Communication Services.

Azure Communication Services identity model works with two key concepts.

## User identity / mapping
Uniquely identifies a user through a user-identifier, which is generated by Azure Communication Services when a user is created. External identifiers such as phone numbers, users, devices, applications, and GUIDs can't be used for identity in Azure Communication Services. You can create Azure Communication Service user identities for free. Charges are only incurred when the user consumes communications modalities such as a chat or a call. Your users identity can be mapped to Azure Communication Services user Identity in 1:1, 1:N, N:1, N:N configurations. A user can participate in multiple communication sessions, using multiple devices, simultaneously. Mapping between Azure Communication Services user identity and customer's private user identity is kept and maintained by the customer. For example, customers can add a `CommunicationServicesId` column in their user table to store the associated Azure Communication Services identity.

## Access tokens 
After a user identity is created, a user is granted with the capability to participate in communications using chat or calls, using access tokens. For example, only a user with chat token can participate in chat and user with VoIP token can participate in a VoIP call. A user can have multiple tokens simultaneously. Azure Communication Services supports multiple types of tokens to account for users who require full access vs limited access. Access tokens have the following properties.

|Property|Description|
|---|----|
|Identity|Uniquely identifies a token|
|Expiration|An access token is valid for a period of time between 1 and 24 hours. After it expires, the access token is invalidated and can't be used to access any primitive. To generate a token with a custom validity, specify the desired validity period when generating the token. If no custom validity is specified, the token will be valid for 24 hours. We recommend using short lifetime tokens for one-off meetings and longer lifetime tokens for agents using the application for longer periods of time|
|Scope|The scope parameter defines a nonempty set of primitives (Chat/VoIP) that can be used.

An access token is a JSON Web Token (JWT) and has integrity protection. That is, its claims can't be changed after it's issued. So a manual change of properties such as identity, expiration, or scopes will invalidate the access token. If primitives are used with invalidated tokens, then access will be denied to the primitives. Azure Communication Services supports the following scopes for access tokens.

### Chat token scopes
Three types of chat token scopes are supported. Permissions for each token are described below.
- `chat`
- `chat.join`
- `chat.join.limited`

|Capability / Token scope| chat | chat.join | chat.join.limited |
|---|---|---|---|
|Create chat thread | Y | N | N |
|Update chat thread with ID | Y | N | N |
|Delete chat thread with ID | Y | N | N |
|Add participant to a chat thread | Y | Y | N |
|Remove participant from a chat thread | Y | Y | N |
|Get chat threads | Y | Y | Y |
|Get chat thread with ID | Y | Y | Y |
|Get ReadReceipt | Y | Y | Y |
|Create ReadReceipt | Y | Y | Y |
|Create message for chat thread with ID | Y | Y | Y |
|Get message with message ID | Y | Y | Y |
|Update your own message with message ID | Y | Y | Y |
|Delete your own message with message ID | Y | Y | Y |
|Send typing indicator | Y | Y | Y |
|Get participant for thread ID | Y | Y | Y |

### VoIP token scopes
Two types of VoIP token scopes are supported. Permissions for each token are described below.
- `voip`
- `voip.join`

|Capability / Token scope| voip | voip.join |
|---|---|---|
|Start a VoIP call | Y | N |
|Start a VoIP call in Virtual Rooms, when the user is already invited to the Room| Y | Y |
|Join an InProgress VoIP call | Y | Y |
|Join an InProgress VoIP call in Virtual Rooms, when the user is already invited to the Room| Y | Y |
|All other in-call operations such as mute/unmute, screen share etc. | Y | Y |
|All other in-call operations such as mute/unmute, screen share etc. in Virtual Rooms| Determined by user role | Determined by user role |

You can the use `voip.join` scope together with [Rooms](./rooms/room-concept.md) to create a scheduled call where only invited users get access and where users are prohibited from creating any other calls.

### Revoke or update access token
- Azure Communication Services Identity library can be used to revoke an access token before its expiration time. Token revocation isn't immediate. It can take up to 15 minutes to propagate.
- The deletion of an identity, resource, or subscription revokes all access tokens.
- If you want to remove a user's ability to access specific functionality, revoke all access tokens for the user. Then issue a new access token that has a more limited set of scopes.
- Rotation of access keys revokes all active access tokens that were created by using a former access key. In this case all identities lose access to Azure Communication Services, and they must issue new access tokens.

## Client-server architecture

You should generate and manage user access tokens by using a trusted service and not from your client application. The connection string or Microsoft Entra credentials that are necessary to generate user access tokens need to be protected and passing them to a client would risk leaking the secret. Failure to properly manage access tokens can result in additional charges on your resource when discovered and misused by somebody else.

If you cache access tokens to a backing store, we recommend encrypting the tokens. An access token gives access to sensitive data and can be used for malicious activity if it's not protected. Someone who has an access token can access a user's chat data or participate in calls impersonating the user.

Make sure to only include those scopes in the token that your client application really needs in order to follow the security principle of least privilege.

:::image type="content" source="./media/architecture-identity.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows the user access token architecture." border="false":::

1. A user starts the client application.
1. The client application contacts your identity management service.
1. The identity management service authenticates the application user. Skip authentication for anonymous user scenarios, but be careful to then add other measures such as throttling and CORS to avoid abuse of your service.
1. Create or find a Communication Services identity for the user.
   1. _Stable identity scenario:_ Your identity management service maintains a mapping between application identities and Communication Services identities. (Application identities include your users and other addressable objects, like services or bots.) If the application identity is new, a new Communication identity is created and a mapping is stored.
   1. _Ephemeral identity scenario:_ The identity management service creates a new Communication identity. In this scenario the same user will end up with a different Communication identity for each session.
1. The identity management service issues a user access token for the applicable identity and returns it to the client application.

Azure App Service or Azure Functions are two alternatives for operating the identity management service. These services scale easily and have built-in features to [authenticate](/../../app-service/overview-authentication-authorization.md) users. They're integrated with [OpenID](../../app-service/configure-authentication-provider-openid-connect.md) and third-party identity providers like [Facebook](/../../app-service/configure-authentication-provider-facebook.md).

## Next steps

* To learn how to issue tokens, see [Create and manage access tokens](../quickstarts/identity/access-tokens.md).
* For an introduction to authentication, see [Authenticate to Azure Communication Services](./authentication.md).
* To read about data residency and privacy, see [Region availability and data residency](./privacy.md).
* To learn how to quickly create identities and tokens for testing, see the [quick-create identity quickstart](../quickstarts/identity/quick-create-identity.md).
* For a full sample of a simple identity management service, visit the [Trusted service tutorial](../tutorials/trusted-service-tutorial.md).
* For a more advanced identity management sample which integrates with Entra ID and Microsoft Graph, head over to [Authentication service hero sample](../samples/trusted-auth-sample.md).
