---
title: Rotate SQL Managed Instance service managed credentials (preview)
description: Rotate SQL Managed Instance service managed credentials (preview)
services: azure-arc
ms.service: azure-arc
ms.subservice: azure-arc-data
author: GuptaSeattle
ms.author: guptapra
ms.reviewer: mikeray
ms.date: 02/14/2023
ms.topic: how-to
---
# Rotate SQL Managed Instance service managed Credentials (preview)

This article describes how to rotate service managed credential for Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instances. The credentials, for example, agent certificates that gets generated by the service are considered as custom resources credentials managed by Azure Arc data services.

Service managed credential rotation is a user-triggered operation that is initiated by the customer during a security issue or when periodic rotation required for compliance.

## Limitations

The following limitations must be considered when rotating SQL managed Instance credentials:

- SQL Server failover groups are not supported.
- Automatically pre-scheduled rotation is not supported.
- The service managed DPAPI symmetric keys, keytab, active directory accounts and service managed TDE credentials are not included in this credential rotation.

## General Purpose

During a SQL Managed Instance service managed credential rotation, the pod will be terminated and reprovisioned when new credentials are generated. This will cause a short amount of downtime as the new pod is created. You will need to build resiliency into your application, such as connection retry logic, to ensure minimal disruption. Read [Overview of the reliability pillar](/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/overview) for more information on architecting resiliency and [retry guidance for Azure Services](/azure/architecture/best-practices/retry-service-specific#sql-database-using-adonet).


## Business Critical

During a service managed credential rotations for a SQL Managed Instance that has more than one replica:

- The secondary replica pods are terminated and reprovisioned with new credential generation.
- After the replica's credentials are rotated, the primary will fail over to a replica that has the newest generation credentials.
- The previous primary pod is terminated and reprovisioned with new credential generation, and becomes a secondary.

There is a brief moment of downtime when the failover occurs.

## Prerequisites: 
Before you proceed with this article, you must have an Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance resource created.

- [An Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance created](./create-sql-managed-instance.md)

## How to rotate service managed credentials in a managed instance

Run the following two commands to get current service managed credentials generation from spec and generate new generation of service managed credentials:

```console
rotateCredentialGeneration=$(($(kubectl get sqlmi <sqlmi-name> -o jsonpath='{.spec.update.managedCredentialsGeneration}' -n <namespace>) + 1)) 
```
---

```console
kubectl patch sqlmi <sqlmi-name> --namespace <namespace> --type merge --patch '{ "spec": { "update": { "managedCredentialsGeneration": '$rotateCredentialGeneration'} } }' 
```
---

The managedCredentialsGeneration will be the target generation for the service managed credentials. By updating it, credential rotation for service managed credentials will be triggered. The rest of the features like configuration, kubernetes topology will remain the same.


## How to roll back service managed credentials in a managed instance

> [!NOTE]
> Rollback is required when credential rotation failed for any reasons. Rollback to previous credentials generation is supported only once to n-1 where n is current generation.

Run the following two commands to get current service managed credentials generation from spec and rollback to previous generation of service managed credentials:

```console
rotateCredentialGeneration=$(($(kubectl get sqlmi <sqlmi-name> -o jsonpath='{.spec.update.managedCredentialsGeneration}' -n <namespace>) - 1)) 
```
---

```console
kubectl patch sqlmi <sqlmi-name> --namespace <namespace> --type merge --patch '{ "spec": { "update": { "managedCredentialsGeneration": '$rotateCredentialGeneration'} } }' 
```
---

Rollback is same as triggering rotation of credentials that would lead to a rollback of credentials to previous generation without generating a new one.


## Next steps
- [View the SQL managed instance dashboards](azure-data-studio-dashboards.md#view-the-sql-managed-instance-dashboards)
- [View SQL Managed Instance in the Azure portal](view-arc-data-services-inventory-in-azure-portal.md)