---
title: Text to speech avatar overview - Speech service
titleSuffix: Azure AI services
description: Get an overview of the Text to speech avatar feature of speech service, which allows users to create synthetic videos featuring avatars speaking based on text input. 
author: sally-baolian
manager: nitinme
ms.service: azure-ai-speech
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 11/15/2023
ms.author: v-baolianzou
ms.custom: references_regions
keywords: text to speech avatar
---

# Text to speech avatar overview (preview)

[!INCLUDE [Text to speech avatar preview](../includes/text-to-speech-avatar-preview.md)]

Text to speech avatar converts text into a digital video of a photorealistic human (either a prebuilt avatar or a [custom text to speech avatar](#custom-text-to-speech-avatar)) speaking with a natural-sounding voice. The text to speech avatar video can be synthesized asynchronously or in real time. Developers can build applications integrated with text to speech avatar through an API, or use a content creation tool on Speech Studio to create video content without coding.

With text to speech avatar's advanced neural network models, the feature empowers users to deliver life-like and high-quality synthetic talking avatar videos for various applications while adhering to [responsible AI practices](/legal/cognitive-services/speech-service/disclosure-voice-talent?context=/azure/ai-services/speech-service/context/context).

> [!NOTE]
> The text to speech avatar feature is only available in the following service regions: West US 2, West Europe, and Southeast Asia. 

Azure AI text to speech avatar feature capabilities include:

- Converts text into a digital video of a photorealistic human speaking with natural-sounding voices powered by Azure AI text to speech.
- Provides a collection of prebuilt avatars.
- The voice of the avatar is generated by Azure AI text to speech. For more information, see [Avatar voice and language](#avatar-voice-and-language).
- Synthesizes text to speech avatar video asynchronously with the [batch synthesis API](./batch-synthesis-avatar.md) or in [real-time](./real-time-synthesis-avatar.md).
- Provides a [content creation tool](https://speech.microsoft.com/portal/talkingavatar) in Speech Studio for creating video content without coding.

With text to speech avatar's advanced neural network models, the feature empowers you to deliver lifelike and high-quality synthetic talking avatar videos for various applications while adhering to responsible AI practices.

> [!TIP]
> To convert text to speech with a no-code approach, try the [Text to speech avatar tool in Speech Studio](https://aka.ms/speechstudio/talkingavatar).

## Avatar voice and language

You can choose from a range of prebuilt voices for the avatar. The language support for text to speech avatar is the same as the language support for text to speech. For details, see [Language and voice support for the Speech service](../language-support.md?tabs=tts). Prebuilt text to speech avatars can be accessed through the [Speech Studio portal](https://aka.ms/speechstudio/talkingavatar) or via API. 

The voice in the synthetic video could be a prebuilt neural voice available on Azure AI Speech or the [custom neural voice](../custom-neural-voice.md) of voice talent selected by you. 

## Avatar video output

Both batch synthesis and real-time synthesis resolution are 1920 x 1080, and the frames per second (FPS) are 25. Batch synthesis codec can be h264 or h265 if the format is mp4 and can set codec as vp9 if the format is `webm`; only `webm` can contain an alpha channel. Real-time synthesis codec is h264. Video bitrate can be configured for both batch synthesis and real-time synthesis in the request; the default value is 2000000; more detailed configurations can be found in the sample code.

|                  | Batch synthesis  | Real-Time synthesis |
|------------------|------------------|----------------------|
| **Resolution**   | 1920 x 1080      | 1920 x 1080          |
| **FPS**          | 25               | 25                   |
| **Codec**        | h264/h265/vp9    | h264                 |

## Custom text to speech avatar

You can create custom text to speech avatars that are unique to your product or brand. All it takes to get started is taking 10 minutes of video recordings. If you're also creating a custom neural voice for the actor, the avatar can be highly realistic. For more information, see [What is custom text to speech avatar](./what-is-custom-text-to-speech-avatar.md).

[Custom neural voice](../custom-neural-voice.md) and [custom text to speech avatar](what-is-custom-text-to-speech-avatar.md) are separate features. You can use them independently or together. If you plan to also use [custom neural voice](../custom-neural-voice.md) with a text to speech avatar, you need to deploy or [copy](../how-to-custom-voice-create-voice.md#copy-your-voice-model-to-another-project) your custom neural voice model to one of the [avatar supported regions](#available-locations). 

## Sample code

Sample code for text to speech avatar is available on GitHub. These samples cover the most popular scenarios:

* [Batch synthesis (REST)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/cognitive-services-speech-sdk/tree/master/samples)
* [Real-time synthesis (SDK)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/cognitive-services-speech-sdk/tree/master/samples/js/browser)
* [Live chat with Azure Open AI in behind (SDK)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/cognitive-services-speech-sdk/tree/master/samples/js/browser)

## Pricing

When you use the text to speech avatar feature, you'll be billed by the minutes of video output, and the text to speech, speech to text, Azure Open AI, or other Azure services are charged separately.

For more information, see [Speech service pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cognitive-services/speech-services/).

## Available locations

The text to speech avatar feature is only available in the following service regions: West US 2, West Europe, and Southeast Asia. 

### Responsible AI 

We care about the people who use AI and the people who will be affected by it as much as we care about technology. For more information, see the Responsible AI [transparency notes](/legal/cognitive-services/speech-service/text-to-speech/transparency-note?context=/azure/ai-services/speech-service/context/context) and [disclosure for voice and avatar talent](/legal/cognitive-services/speech-service/disclosure-voice-talent?context=/azure/ai-services/speech-service/context/context).

## Next steps

* [Use batch synthesis for text to speech avatar](./batch-synthesis-avatar.md)
* [What is custom text to speech avatar](what-is-custom-text-to-speech-avatar.md)
