---
title: Company work accounts and Partner Center 
description: Find out how to link a work email account domain to Partner Center. Learn how to create a work account and use multiple accounts. See troubleshooting tips.
ms.service: marketplace 
ms.subservice: partnercenter-marketplace-publisher
ms.topic: conceptual
author: parthpandyaMSFT
ms.author: parthp
ms.reviewer: agandotra
ms.date: 06/30/2022
ms.custom: kr2b-contr-experiment
---

# Company work accounts and Partner Center

Partner Center uses company work accounts, also known as Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenants, for many purposes:

- To manage account access for multiple users
- To control permissions
- To host groups and applications
- To maintain profile data

If you link your company's work email account domain to your Partner Center account, your employees can sign in to Partner Center to manage marketplace offers by using their own work account usernames and passwords.

## Check whether your company already has a work account

If your company subscribes to a Microsoft cloud service such as Azure, Microsoft Intune, or Microsoft 365, you already have a work email account domain. You can use that work account with Partner Center.

Follow these steps to check for a work account:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
1. Search for and select **Azure Active Directory**, and then select **Custom domain names**.
1. Search for your domain name in the list. If you already have a work account, the list will contain your domain name.

If your company doesn't already have a work account, one will be created for you during the Partner Center enrollment process.

## Set up multiple work accounts

Before you decide to use an existing work account, consider how many users in the work account need to access Partner Center. If you have users in the work account who don't need to access Partner Center, you might want to consider creating multiple work accounts. That way, only users who need to access Partner Center are represented on a particular account.

## Create a new work account

To create a new work account for your company, take the following steps. You might need to request assistance from the person who has administrative permissions for your company's Microsoft Azure account.

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

1. Search for and select **Azure Active Directory**, and then select **Users**.

1. Select **New user**, and then follow these steps to configure a new Azure work account:

   1. Enter a name and work email address.
   1. For **Directory role**, ensure the value meets the user requirement.
   1. At the bottom, select **Show password**.
   1. Make a note of the autogenerated password.
   1. Complete the other required fields.

1. Select **Create** to save the new user. 

The email address for the user account must be a verified domain name in your directory. To list all the verified domains in your directory, select **Azure Active Directory** > **Custom domain names**.

To learn more about adding custom domains in Azure AD, see [Add or associate a domain in Azure AD](../active-directory/fundamentals/add-custom-domain.md).

## Troubleshoot work email sign-in

If you're having trouble signing in to your work account, find the scenario on the following diagram that best matches your situation, and take the recommended steps.

:::image type="content" source="media/manage-accounts/onboarding-aad-flow.png" alt-text="Flowchart that helps users solve sign-in problems. Steps in the chart check for a domain, show how to add a domain, and provide other tips." lightbox="media/manage-accounts/onboarding-aad-flow.png":::

## Next steps

- [Manage your commercial marketplace account in Partner Center](./manage-account.md)
