articles/storage/common/storage-auth-aad-app.md, before:

---
title: Acquire a token from Azure AD for authorizing requests from a client application
titleSuffix: Azure Storage
description: Use Azure Active Directory to authenticate from within a client application, acquire an OAuth 2.0 token, and authorize requests to Azure Blob storage and Queue storage.
services: storage
author: tamram

ms.service: storage
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 09/21/2020
ms.author: tamram
ms.subservice: common
ms.custom: "devx-track-csharp"
---

# Acquire a token from Azure AD for authorizing requests from a client application

A key advantage of using Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) with Azure Blob storage or Queue storage is that your credentials no longer need to be stored in your code. Instead, you can request an OAuth 2.0 access token from the Microsoft identity platform. Azure AD authenticates the security principal (a user, group, or service principal) running the application. If authentication succeeds, Azure AD returns the access token to the application, and the application can then use the access token to authorize requests to Azure Blob storage or Queue storage.

This article shows how to configure your native application or web application for authentication with the Microsoft identity platform using a sample application that is available for download. The sample application features .NET, but other languages use a similar approach. For more information about the Microsoft identity platform, see [Microsoft identity platform overview](../../active-directory/develop/v2-overview.md).

For an overview of the OAuth 2.0 code grant flow, see [Authorize access to Azure Active Directory web applications using the OAuth 2.0 code grant flow](../../active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow.md).

## About the sample application

The sample application provides an end-to-end experience that shows how to configure a web application for authentication with Azure AD in a local development environment. To view and run the sample application, first clone or download it from [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/storage-dotnet-azure-ad-msal). Then follow the steps outlined in the article to configure an Azure app registration and update the application for your environment.

## Assign a role to an Azure AD security principal

To authenticate a security principal from your Azure Storage application, first configure Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) settings for that security principal. Azure Storage defines built-in roles that encompass permissions for containers and queues. When the Azure role is assigned to a security principal, that security principal is granted access to that resource. For more information, see [Manage access rights to Azure Blob and Queue data with Azure RBAC](./storage-auth-aad-rbac-portal.md).

## Register your application with an Azure AD tenant

The first step in using Azure AD to authorize access to storage resources is registering your client application with an Azure AD tenant from the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). When you register your client application, you supply information about the application to Azure AD. Azure AD then provides a client ID (also called an *application ID*) that you use to associate your application with Azure AD at runtime. To learn more about the client ID, see [Application and service principal objects in Azure Active Directory](../../active-directory/develop/app-objects-and-service-principals.md). To register your Azure Storage application, follow the steps shown in [Quickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](../../active-directory/develop/quickstart-configure-app-access-web-apis.md). 

The following image shows common settings for registering a web application. Note that in this example, the redirect URI is set to `http://localhost:5000/signin-oidc` for testing the sample application in the development environment. You can modify this setting later under the **Authentication** setting for your registered application in the Azure portal:

:::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/app-registration.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to register your storage application with Azure AD":::

> [!NOTE]
> If you register your application as a native application, you can specify any valid URI for the **Redirect URI**. For native applications, this value does not have to be a real URL. For web applications, the redirect URI must be a valid URI, because it specifies the URL to which tokens are provided.

After you've registered your application, you'll see the application ID (or client ID) under **Settings**:

:::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/app-registration-client-id.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the client ID":::

For more information about registering an application with Azure AD, see [Integrating applications with Azure Active Directory](../../active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app.md).

### Grant your registered app permissions to Azure Storage

Next, grant your application permissions to call Azure Storage APIs. This step enables your application to authorize requests to Azure Storage with Azure AD.

1. On the **API permissions** page for your registered application, select **Add a permission**.
1. Under the **Microsoft APIs** tab, select **Azure Storage**.
1. On **Request API permissions** pane, under **What type of permissions does your application require?**, observe that the available permission type is **Delegated permissions**. This option is selected for you by default.
1. Under **Permissions**, select the checkbox next to **user_impersonation**, then select the **Add permissions** button.

    :::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/registered-app-permissions-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing permissions for storage API":::

1. Next, grant admin consent for these permissions by clicking **Grant admin consent for Default Directory**.

The **API permissions** pane now shows that your registered Azure AD application has access to both the Microsoft Graph and Azure Storage APIs, and that consent is granted for the default directory. Permissions are granted to Microsoft Graph automatically when you first register your app with Azure AD.

:::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/registered-app-permissions-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing API permissions for registered app":::

### Create a client secret

The application needs a client secret to prove its identity when requesting a token. To add the client secret, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to your app registration in the Azure portal.
1. Select the **Certificates & secrets** setting.
1. Under **Client secrets**, click **New client secret** to create a new secret.
1. Provide a description for the secret, and choose the desired expiration interval.
1. Immediately copy the value of the new secret to a secure location. The full value is displayed to you only once.

    ![Screenshot showing client secret](media/storage-auth-aad-app/client-secret.png)

### Enable implicit grant flow

Next, configure implicit grant flow for your application. Follow these steps:

1. Navigate to your app registration in the Azure portal.
1. In the **Manage** section, select the **Authentication** setting.
1. In the **Implicit grant** section, select the check box to enable ID tokens, as shown in the following image:

    :::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/enable-implicit-grant-flow.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to enable settings for implicit grant flow":::

## Client libraries for token acquisition

Once you have registered your application and granted it permissions to access data in Azure Blob storage or Queue storage, you can add code to your application to authenticate a security principal and acquire an OAuth 2.0 token. To authenticate and acquire the token, you can use either one of the [Microsoft identity platform authentication libraries](../../active-directory/develop/reference-v2-libraries.md) or another open-source library that supports OpenID Connect 1.0. Your application can then use the access token to authorize a request against Azure Blob storage or Queue storage.

For a list of scenarios for which acquiring tokens is supported, see the [authentication flows](../../active-directory/develop/msal-authentication-flows.md) section of the [Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)](../../active-directory/develop/msal-overview.md) documentation.

## Well-known values for authentication with Azure AD

To authenticate a security principal with Azure AD, you need to include some well-known values in your code.

### Azure AD authority

For Microsoft public cloud, the base Azure AD authority is as follows, where *tenant-id* is your Active Directory tenant ID (or directory ID):

`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant-id>/`

The tenant ID identifies the Azure AD tenant to use for authentication. It is also referred to as the directory ID. To retrieve the tenant ID, navigate to the **Overview** page for your app registration in the Azure portal, and copy the value from there.

### Azure Storage resource ID

[!INCLUDE [storage-resource-id-include](../../../includes/storage-resource-id-include.md)]

## .NET code example: Create a block blob

The code example shows how to get an access token from Azure AD. The access token is used to authenticate the specified user and then authorize a request to create a block blob. To get this sample working, first follow the steps outlined in the preceding sections.

To request the token, you will need the following values from your app's registration:

- The name of your Azure AD domain. Retrieve this value from the **Overview** page of your Azure Active Directory.
- The tenant (or directory) ID. Retrieve this value from the **Overview** page of your app registration.
- The client (or application) ID. Retrieve this value from the **Overview** page of your app registration.
- The client redirection URI. Retrieve this value from the **Authentication** settings for your app registration.
- The value of the client secret. Retrieve this value from the location to which you previously copied it.

### Create a storage account and container

To run the code sample, create a storage account within the same subscription as your Azure Active Directory. Then create a container within that storage account. The sample code will create a block blob in this container.

Next, explicitly assign the **Storage Blob Data Contributor** role to the user account under which you will run the sample code. For instructions on how to assign this role in the Azure portal, see [Use the Azure portal to assign an Azure role for access to blob and queue data](storage-auth-aad-rbac-portal.md).

> [!NOTE]
> When you create an Azure Storage account, you are not automatically assigned permissions to access data via Azure AD. You must explicitly assign yourself an Azure role for Azure Storage. You can assign it at the level of your subscription, resource group, storage account, or container or queue.

### Create a web application that authorizes access to Blob storage with Azure AD

When your application accesses Azure Storage, it does so on the user's behalf, meaning that blob or queue resources are accessed using the permissions of the user who is logged in. To try this code example, you need a web application that prompts the user to sign in using an Azure AD identity. You can create your own, or use the sample application provided by Microsoft.

A completed sample web application that acquires a token and uses it to create a blob in Azure Storage is available on [GitHub](https://aka.ms/aadstorage). Reviewing and running the completed sample may be helpful for understanding the code examples. For instructions about how to run the completed sample, see the section titled [View and run the completed sample](#view-and-run-the-completed-sample).

#### Add references and using statements  

From Visual Studio, install the Azure Storage client library. From the **Tools** menu, select **NuGet Package Manager**, then **Package Manager Console**. Type the following commands into the console window to install the necessary packages from the Azure Storage client library for .NET:

# [.NET v12 SDK](#tab/dotnet)

```console
Install-Package Azure.Storage.Blobs
Install-Package Microsoft.Identity.Web -Version 0.4.0-preview
```

Next, add the following using statements to the HomeController.cs file:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Identity.Web; //MSAL library for getting the access token
using Azure.Storage.Blobs;
```

# [.NET v11 SDK](#tab/dotnet11)

```console
Install-Package Microsoft.Azure.Storage.Blob
Install-Package Microsoft.Identity.Web -Version 0.4.0-preview //or a later version
```

Next, add the following using statements to the HomeController.cs file:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Identity.Client; //MSAL library for getting the access token
using Microsoft.Azure.Storage.Auth;
using Microsoft.Azure.Storage.Blob;
```

---

#### Create a block blob

Add the following code snippet to create a block blob. Remember to replace values in angle brackets with your own values:

# [.NET v12 SDK](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
private static async Task<string> CreateBlob(TokenAcquisitionTokenCredential tokenCredential)
{
    Uri blobUri = new Uri("https://<storage-account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/Blob1.txt");
    BlobClient blobClient = new BlobClient(blobUri, tokenCredential);

    string blobContents = "Blob created by Azure AD authenticated user.";
    byte[] byteArray = Encoding.ASCII.GetBytes(blobContents);

    using (MemoryStream stream = new MemoryStream(byteArray))
    {
        await blobClient.UploadAsync(stream);
    }
    return "Blob successfully created";
}
```

# [.NET v11 SDK](#tab/dotnet11)

```csharp
private static async Task<string> CreateBlob(string accessToken)
{
    // Create a blob on behalf of the user.
    TokenCredential tokenCredential = new TokenCredential(accessToken);
    StorageCredentials storageCredentials = new StorageCredentials(tokenCredential);

    // Replace the URL below with the URL to your blob.
    Uri blobUri = new Uri("https://<storage-account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/Blob1.txt");
    CloudBlockBlob blob = new CloudBlockBlob(blobUri, storageCredentials);
    await blob.UploadTextAsync("Blob created by Azure AD authenticated user.");
    return "Blob successfully created";
}
```

---

> [!NOTE]
> To authorize blob and queue operations with an OAuth 2.0 token, you must use HTTPS.

In the example above, the .NET client library handles the authorization of the request to create the block blob. Azure Storage client libraries for other languages also handle the authorization of the request for you. However, if you are calling an Azure Storage operation with an OAuth token using the REST API, then you'll need to construct the **Authorization** header by using the OAuth token.

To call Blob and Queue service operations using OAuth access tokens, pass the access token in the **Authorization** header using the **Bearer** scheme, and specify a service version of 2017-11-09 or higher, as shown in the following example:

```https
GET /container/file.txt HTTP/1.1
Host: mystorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net
x-ms-version: 2017-11-09
Authorization: Bearer eyJ0eXAiOnJKV1...Xd6j
```

#### Get an access token from Azure AD

Next, add a method that requests a token from Azure AD on the behalf of the user. This method defines the scope for which permissions are to be granted. For more information about permissions and scopes, see [Permissions and consent in the Microsoft identity platform endpoint](../../active-directory/develop/v2-permissions-and-consent.md).

Use the resource ID to construct the scope for which to acquire the token. The example constructs the scope by using the resource ID together with the built-in `user_impersonation` scope, which indicates that the token is being requested on behalf of the user.

Keep in mind that you may need to present the user with an interface that enables the user to consent to request the token their behalf:

```csharp
[AuthorizeForScopes(Scopes = new string[] { "https://storage.azure.com/user_impersonation" })]
public async Task<IActionResult> Blob()
{
    string message = await CreateBlob(new TokenAcquisitionTokenCredential(_tokenAcquisition));
    ViewData["Message"] = message;
    return View();
}
```

Consent is the process of a user granting authorization to an application to access protected resources on their behalf. The Microsoft identity platform supports incremental consent, meaning that a security principal can request a minimum set of permissions initially and add permissions over time as needed. When your code requests an access token, specify the scope of permissions that your app needs. For more information about incremental consent, see [Incremental and dynamic consent](../../active-directory/azuread-dev/azure-ad-endpoint-comparison.md#incremental-and-dynamic-consent).

## View and run the completed sample

To run the sample application, first clone or download it from [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/storage-dotnet-azure-ad-msal). Then update the application as described in the following sections.

### Provide values in the settings file

Update the *appsettings.json* file with your own values, as follows:

```json
{
  "AzureAd": {
    "Instance": "https://login.microsoftonline.com/",
    "Domain": "<azure-ad-domain-name>.onmicrosoft.com",
    "TenantId": "<tenant-id>",
    "ClientId": "<client-id>",
    "ClientSecret": "<client-secret>"
    "ClientCertificates": [
    ],
    "CallbackPath": "/signin-oidc"
  },
  "Logging": {
    "LogLevel": {
      "Default": "Information",
      "Microsoft": "Warning",
      "Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime": "Information"
    }
  },
  "AllowedHosts": "*"
}
```

### Update the storage account and container name

In the *HomeController.cs* file, update the URI that references the block blob to use the name of your storage account and container, replacing the values in angle brackets with your own values:

```html
https://<storage-account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/Blob1.txt
```

## Next steps

- [Microsoft identity platform](../../active-directory/develop/index.yml)
- [Manage access rights to storage data with Azure RBAC](./storage-auth-aad-rbac-portal.md)
- [Authenticate access to blobs and queues with Azure Active Directory and managed identities for Azure Resources](storage-auth-aad-msi.md)

Commit message:

clarify need to assign data access role to self

articles/storage/common/storage-auth-aad-app.md, after:

---
title: Acquire a token from Azure AD for authorizing requests from a client application
titleSuffix: Azure Storage
description: Use Azure Active Directory to authenticate from within a client application, acquire an OAuth 2.0 token, and authorize requests to Azure Blob storage and Queue storage.
services: storage
author: tamram

ms.service: storage
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 12/07/2020
ms.author: tamram
ms.subservice: common
ms.custom: "devx-track-csharp"
---

# Acquire a token from Azure AD for authorizing requests from a client application

A key advantage of using Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) with Azure Blob storage or Queue storage is that your credentials no longer need to be stored in your code. Instead, you can request an OAuth 2.0 access token from the Microsoft identity platform. Azure AD authenticates the security principal (a user, group, or service principal) running the application. If authentication succeeds, Azure AD returns the access token to the application, and the application can then use the access token to authorize requests to Azure Blob storage or Queue storage.

This article shows how to configure your native application or web application for authentication with the Microsoft identity platform using a sample application that is available for download. The sample application features .NET, but other languages use a similar approach. For more information about the Microsoft identity platform, see [Microsoft identity platform overview](../../active-directory/develop/v2-overview.md).

For an overview of the OAuth 2.0 code grant flow, see [Authorize access to Azure Active Directory web applications using the OAuth 2.0 code grant flow](../../active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow.md).

## About the sample application

The sample application provides an end-to-end experience that shows how to configure a web application for authentication with Azure AD in a local development environment. To view and run the sample application, first clone or download it from [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/storage-dotnet-azure-ad-msal). Then follow the steps outlined in the article to configure an Azure app registration and update the application for your environment.

## Assign a role to an Azure AD security principal

To authenticate a security principal from your Azure Storage application, first configure Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) settings for that security principal. Azure Storage defines built-in roles that encompass permissions for containers and queues. When the Azure role is assigned to a security principal, that security principal is granted access to that resource. For more information, see [Manage access rights to Azure Blob and Queue data with Azure RBAC](./storage-auth-aad-rbac-portal.md).

## Register your application with an Azure AD tenant

The first step in using Azure AD to authorize access to storage resources is registering your client application with an Azure AD tenant from the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). When you register your client application, you supply information about the application to Azure AD. Azure AD then provides a client ID (also called an *application ID*) that you use to associate your application with Azure AD at runtime. To learn more about the client ID, see [Application and service principal objects in Azure Active Directory](../../active-directory/develop/app-objects-and-service-principals.md). To register your Azure Storage application, follow the steps shown in [Quickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](../../active-directory/develop/quickstart-configure-app-access-web-apis.md). 

The following image shows common settings for registering a web application. Note that in this example, the redirect URI is set to `http://localhost:5000/signin-oidc` for testing the sample application in the development environment. You can modify this setting later under the **Authentication** setting for your registered application in the Azure portal:

:::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/app-registration.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to register your storage application with Azure AD":::

> [!NOTE]
> If you register your application as a native application, you can specify any valid URI for the **Redirect URI**. For native applications, this value does not have to be a real URL. For web applications, the redirect URI must be a valid URI, because it specifies the URL to which tokens are provided.

After you've registered your application, you'll see the application ID (or client ID) under **Settings**:

:::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/app-registration-client-id.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the client ID":::

For more information about registering an application with Azure AD, see [Integrating applications with Azure Active Directory](../../active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app.md).

### Grant your registered app permissions to Azure Storage

Next, grant your application permissions to call Azure Storage APIs. This step enables your application to authorize requests to Azure Storage with Azure AD.

1. On the **API permissions** page for your registered application, select **Add a permission**.
1. Under the **Microsoft APIs** tab, select **Azure Storage**.
1. On **Request API permissions** pane, under **What type of permissions does your application require?**, observe that the available permission type is **Delegated permissions**. This option is selected for you by default.
1. Under **Permissions**, select the checkbox next to **user_impersonation**, then select the **Add permissions** button.

    :::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/registered-app-permissions-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing permissions for storage API":::

1. Next, grant admin consent for these permissions by clicking **Grant admin consent for Default Directory**.

The **API permissions** pane now shows that your registered Azure AD application has access to both the Microsoft Graph and Azure Storage APIs, and that consent is granted for the default directory. Permissions are granted to Microsoft Graph automatically when you first register your app with Azure AD.

:::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/registered-app-permissions-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing API permissions for registered app":::

### Create a client secret

The application needs a client secret to prove its identity when requesting a token. To add the client secret, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to your app registration in the Azure portal.
1. Select the **Certificates & secrets** setting.
1. Under **Client secrets**, click **New client secret** to create a new secret.
1. Provide a description for the secret, and choose the desired expiration interval.
1. Immediately copy the value of the new secret to a secure location. The full value is displayed to you only once.

    ![Screenshot showing client secret](media/storage-auth-aad-app/client-secret.png)

### Enable implicit grant flow

Next, configure implicit grant flow for your application. Follow these steps:

1. Navigate to your app registration in the Azure portal.
1. In the **Manage** section, select the **Authentication** setting.
1. In the **Implicit grant** section, select the check box to enable ID tokens, as shown in the following image:

    :::image type="content" source="media/storage-auth-aad-app/enable-implicit-grant-flow.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to enable settings for implicit grant flow":::

## Client libraries for token acquisition

Once you have registered your application and granted it permissions to access data in Azure Blob storage or Queue storage, you can add code to your application to authenticate a security principal and acquire an OAuth 2.0 token. To authenticate and acquire the token, you can use either one of the [Microsoft identity platform authentication libraries](../../active-directory/develop/reference-v2-libraries.md) or another open-source library that supports OpenID Connect 1.0. Your application can then use the access token to authorize a request against Azure Blob storage or Queue storage.

For a list of scenarios for which acquiring tokens is supported, see the [authentication flows](../../active-directory/develop/msal-authentication-flows.md) section of the [Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL)](../../active-directory/develop/msal-overview.md) documentation.

## Well-known values for authentication with Azure AD

To authenticate a security principal with Azure AD, you need to include some well-known values in your code.

### Azure AD authority

For Microsoft public cloud, the base Azure AD authority is as follows, where *tenant-id* is your Active Directory tenant ID (or directory ID):

`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant-id>/`

The tenant ID identifies the Azure AD tenant to use for authentication. It is also referred to as the directory ID. To retrieve the tenant ID, navigate to the **Overview** page for your app registration in the Azure portal, and copy the value from there.

### Azure Storage resource ID

[!INCLUDE [storage-resource-id-include](../../../includes/storage-resource-id-include.md)]

## .NET code example: Create a block blob

The code example shows how to get an access token from Azure AD. The access token is used to authenticate the specified user and then authorize a request to create a block blob. To get this sample working, first follow the steps outlined in the preceding sections.

To request the token, you will need the following values from your app's registration:

- The name of your Azure AD domain. Retrieve this value from the **Overview** page of your Azure Active Directory.
- The tenant (or directory) ID. Retrieve this value from the **Overview** page of your app registration.
- The client (or application) ID. Retrieve this value from the **Overview** page of your app registration.
- The client redirection URI. Retrieve this value from the **Authentication** settings for your app registration.
- The value of the client secret. Retrieve this value from the location to which you previously copied it.

### Create a storage account and container

To run the code sample, create a storage account within the same subscription as your Azure Active Directory. Then create a container within that storage account. The sample code will create a block blob in this container.

Next, explicitly assign the **Storage Blob Data Contributor** role to the user account under which you will run the sample code. For instructions on how to assign this role in the Azure portal, see [Use the Azure portal to assign an Azure role for access to blob and queue data](storage-auth-aad-rbac-portal.md).

> [!NOTE]
> When you create an Azure Storage account, you are not automatically assigned permissions to access data via Azure AD. You must explicitly assign yourself an Azure role for Azure Storage. You can assign it at the level of your subscription, resource group, storage account, or container or queue.
>
> Prior to assigning yourself a role for data access, you will be able to access data in your storage account via the Azure portal because the Azure portal can also use the account key for data access. For more information, see [Choose how to authorize access to blob data in the Azure portal](../blobs/authorize-data-operations-portal.md).

### Create a web application that authorizes access to Blob storage with Azure AD

When your application accesses Azure Storage, it does so on the user's behalf, meaning that blob or queue resources are accessed using the permissions of the user who is logged in. To try this code example, you need a web application that prompts the user to sign in using an Azure AD identity. You can create your own, or use the sample application provided by Microsoft.

A completed sample web application that acquires a token and uses it to create a blob in Azure Storage is available on [GitHub](https://aka.ms/aadstorage). Reviewing and running the completed sample may be helpful for understanding the code examples. For instructions about how to run the completed sample, see the section titled [View and run the completed sample](#view-and-run-the-completed-sample).

#### Add references and using statements  

From Visual Studio, install the Azure Storage client library. From the **Tools** menu, select **NuGet Package Manager**, then **Package Manager Console**. Type the following commands into the console window to install the necessary packages from the Azure Storage client library for .NET:

# [.NET v12 SDK](#tab/dotnet)

```console
Install-Package Azure.Storage.Blobs
Install-Package Microsoft.Identity.Web -Version 0.4.0-preview
```

Next, add the following using statements to the HomeController.cs file:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Identity.Web; //MSAL library for getting the access token
using Azure.Storage.Blobs;
```

# [.NET v11 SDK](#tab/dotnet11)

```console
Install-Package Microsoft.Azure.Storage.Blob
Install-Package Microsoft.Identity.Web -Version 0.4.0-preview //or a later version
```

Next, add the following using statements to the HomeController.cs file:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Identity.Client; //MSAL library for getting the access token
using Microsoft.Azure.Storage.Auth;
using Microsoft.Azure.Storage.Blob;
```

---

#### Create a block blob

Add the following code snippet to create a block blob. Remember to replace values in angle brackets with your own values:

# [.NET v12 SDK](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
private static async Task<string> CreateBlob(TokenAcquisitionTokenCredential tokenCredential)
{
    Uri blobUri = new Uri("https://<storage-account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/Blob1.txt");
    BlobClient blobClient = new BlobClient(blobUri, tokenCredential);

    string blobContents = "Blob created by Azure AD authenticated user.";
    byte[] byteArray = Encoding.ASCII.GetBytes(blobContents);

    using (MemoryStream stream = new MemoryStream(byteArray))
    {
        await blobClient.UploadAsync(stream);
    }
    return "Blob successfully created";
}
```

# [.NET v11 SDK](#tab/dotnet11)

```csharp
private static async Task<string> CreateBlob(string accessToken)
{
    // Create a blob on behalf of the user.
    TokenCredential tokenCredential = new TokenCredential(accessToken);
    StorageCredentials storageCredentials = new StorageCredentials(tokenCredential);

    // Replace the URL below with the URL to your blob.
    Uri blobUri = new Uri("https://<storage-account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/Blob1.txt");
    CloudBlockBlob blob = new CloudBlockBlob(blobUri, storageCredentials);
    await blob.UploadTextAsync("Blob created by Azure AD authenticated user.");
    return "Blob successfully created";
}
```

---

> [!NOTE]
> To authorize blob and queue operations with an OAuth 2.0 token, you must use HTTPS.

In the example above, the .NET client library handles the authorization of the request to create the block blob. Azure Storage client libraries for other languages also handle the authorization of the request for you. However, if you are calling an Azure Storage operation with an OAuth token using the REST API, then you'll need to construct the **Authorization** header by using the OAuth token.

To call Blob and Queue service operations using OAuth access tokens, pass the access token in the **Authorization** header using the **Bearer** scheme, and specify a service version of 2017-11-09 or higher, as shown in the following example:

```https
GET /container/file.txt HTTP/1.1
Host: mystorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net
x-ms-version: 2017-11-09
Authorization: Bearer eyJ0eXAiOnJKV1...Xd6j
```

#### Get an access token from Azure AD

Next, add a method that requests a token from Azure AD on the behalf of the user. This method defines the scope for which permissions are to be granted. For more information about permissions and scopes, see [Permissions and consent in the Microsoft identity platform endpoint](../../active-directory/develop/v2-permissions-and-consent.md).

Use the resource ID to construct the scope for which to acquire the token. The example constructs the scope by using the resource ID together with the built-in `user_impersonation` scope, which indicates that the token is being requested on behalf of the user.

Keep in mind that you may need to present the user with an interface that enables the user to consent to request the token their behalf:

```csharp
[AuthorizeForScopes(Scopes = new string[] { "https://storage.azure.com/user_impersonation" })]
public async Task<IActionResult> Blob()
{
    string message = await CreateBlob(new TokenAcquisitionTokenCredential(_tokenAcquisition));
    ViewData["Message"] = message;
    return View();
}
```

Consent is the process of a user granting authorization to an application to access protected resources on their behalf. The Microsoft identity platform supports incremental consent, meaning that a security principal can request a minimum set of permissions initially and add permissions over time as needed. When your code requests an access token, specify the scope of permissions that your app needs. For more information about incremental consent, see [Incremental and dynamic consent](../../active-directory/azuread-dev/azure-ad-endpoint-comparison.md#incremental-and-dynamic-consent).

## View and run the completed sample

To run the sample application, first clone or download it from [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/storage-dotnet-azure-ad-msal). Then update the application as described in the following sections.

### Provide values in the settings file

Update the *appsettings.json* file with your own values, as follows:

```json
{
  "AzureAd": {
    "Instance": "https://login.microsoftonline.com/",
    "Domain": "<azure-ad-domain-name>.onmicrosoft.com",
    "TenantId": "<tenant-id>",
    "ClientId": "<client-id>",
    "ClientSecret": "<client-secret>"
    "ClientCertificates": [
    ],
    "CallbackPath": "/signin-oidc"
  },
  "Logging": {
    "LogLevel": {
      "Default": "Information",
      "Microsoft": "Warning",
      "Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime": "Information"
    }
  },
  "AllowedHosts": "*"
}
```

### Update the storage account and container name

In the *HomeController.cs* file, update the URI that references the block blob to use the name of your storage account and container, replacing the values in angle brackets with your own values:

```html
https://<storage-account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/Blob1.txt
```

## Next steps

- [Microsoft identity platform](../../active-directory/develop/index.yml)
- [Manage access rights to storage data with Azure RBAC](./storage-auth-aad-rbac-portal.md)
- [Authenticate access to blobs and queues with Azure Active Directory and managed identities for Azure Resources](storage-auth-aad-msi.md)
