---
title: Monitoring Azure Stream Analytics 
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure Stream Analytics 
author: xujxu
ms.author: xujiang1
ms.service: stream-analytics
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: horz-monitor
ms.date: 07/10/2023
---

# Monitoring Azure Stream Analytics
When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation. 

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Stream Analytics. Azure Stream Analytics uses [Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/overview). If you're unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource).

## What is Azure Monitor?
Azure Stream Analytics creates monitoring data using [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md), which is a full stack monitoring service in Azure. Azure Monitor provides a complete set of features to monitor your Azure resources. It can also monitor resources in other clouds and on-premises.

Start with the article [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md), which describes the following concepts:

- What is Azure Monitor?
- Costs associated with monitoring
- Monitoring data collected in Azure
- Configuring data collection
- Standard tools in Azure for analyzing and alerting on monitoring data

The following sections build on this article by describing the specific data gathered for Azure Stream Analytics. These sections also provide examples for configuring data collection and analyzing this data with Azure tools.

> [!TIP]
> To understand costs associated with Azure Monitor, see [Azure Monitor cost and usage](../azure-monitor/cost-usage.md). To understand the time it takes for your data to appear in Azure Monitor, see [Log data ingestion time](../azure-monitor/logs/data-ingestion-time.md).

## Monitoring overview page in Azure portal
Azure Stream Analytics provides plenty of metrics that you can use to monitor and troubleshoot your query and job performance. You can view data from these metrics on the **Overview** page of the Azure portal, in the **Monitoring** section.  

:::image type="content" source="./media/stream-analytics-job-metrics/02-stream-analytics-job-metrics-monitoring-block.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Azure portal that shows the section for monitoring Stream Analytics jobs." lightbox="./media/stream-analytics-job-metrics/02-stream-analytics-job-metrics-monitoring-block.png":::

If you want to check a specific metric, select **Metrics** in the **Monitoring** section. On the page that appears, select the metric.

:::image type="content" source="./media/stream-analytics-job-metrics/01-stream-analytics-job-metrics-monitoring.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows selecting a metric in the Stream Analytics job monitoring dashboard." lightbox="./media/stream-analytics-job-metrics/01-stream-analytics-job-metrics-monitoring.png":::

## Monitoring data 
Azure Stream Analytics collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource#monitoring-data-from-Azure-resources). 

See [Monitoring Azure Stream Analytics data reference](monitor-azure-stream-analytics-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs metrics created by Azure Stream Analytics.

## Collection and routing
Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  Resource Logs aren't collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for **Azure Stream Analytics** are listed in [Azure Stream Analytics monitoring data reference](monitor-azure-stream-analytics-reference.md#resource-logs).

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics
You can analyze metrics for **Azure Stream Analytics** with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Analyze metrics with Azure Monitor metrics explorer](../azure-monitor/essentials/analyze-metrics.md) for details on using this tool. 

For a list of the platform metrics collected for Azure Stream Analytics, see [Monitoring Azure Stream Analytics data reference metrics](monitor-azure-stream-analytics-reference.md#metrics)  

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported).


## Analyzing logs
Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema). 

The [Activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log) is a type of Azure platform log that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics. For more information, see [Debugging using activity logs](stream-analytics-job-diagnostic-logs.md#debugging-using-activity-logs).

For a list of the types of resource logs collected for Azure Stream Analytics, see [Monitoring Azure Stream Analytics data reference](monitor-azure-stream-analytics-reference.md#resource-logs). For more information, see [Send diagnostics to Azure Monitor logs](stream-analytics-job-diagnostic-logs.md#send-diagnostics-to-azure-monitor-logs).

### Sample Kusto queries

<!-- REQUIRED if you support logs. Please keep headings in this order -->
<!-- Add sample Log Analytics Kusto queries for your service. -->

<!-- WRITER: For sample Log Analytics Kusto queries, add some of the pre-defined queries provided by Stream Analytics to the left of the query editor, within the Queries tab? -->

Following are sample queries that you can use to help you monitor your Azure Stream Analytics resources:

- List all input data errors. The following query shows all errors that occurred while processing the data from inputs. 

    ```kusto
    AzureDiagnostics 
    | where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.STREAMANALYTICS" and parse_json(properties_s).Type == "DataError" 
    | project TimeGenerated, Resource, Region_s, OperationName, properties_s, Level, _ResourceId        
    ```
- Events that arrived late. The following query shows errors due to events where difference between application time and arrival time is greater than the late arrival policy. 

    ```kusto
    AzureDiagnostics
    | where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.STREAMANALYTICS" and  parse_json(properties_s).DataErrorType == "LateInputEvent"
    | project TimeGenerated, Resource, Region_s, OperationName, properties_s, Level, _ResourceId
    ```
- Events that arrived early. The following query shows errors due to events where difference between Application time and Arrival time is greater than 5 minutes. 
    
    ```kusto
    AzureDiagnostics
    | where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.STREAMANALYTICS" and parse_json(properties_s).DataErrorType == "EarlyInputEvent"
    | project TimeGenerated, Resource, Region_s, OperationName, properties_s, Level, _ResourceId    
    ```
- Events that arrived out of order. The following query shows errors due to events that arrive out of order according to the out-of-order policy. 
    
    ```kusto
    // To create an alert for this query, click '+ New alert rule'
    AzureDiagnostics
    | where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.STREAMANALYTICS" and parse_json(properties_s).DataErrorType == "OutOfOrderEvent"
    | project TimeGenerated, Resource, Region_s, OperationName, properties_s, Level, _ResourceId    
    ```
- All output data errors. The following query shows all errors that occurred while writing the results of the query to the outputs in your job. 

    ```kusto
    AzureDiagnostics
    | where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.STREAMANALYTICS" and parse_json(properties_s).DataErrorType in ("OutputDataConversionError.RequiredColumnMissing", "OutputDataConversionError.ColumnNameInvalid", "OutputDataConversionError.TypeConversionError", "OutputDataConversionError.RecordExceededSizeLimit", "OutputDataConversionError.DuplicateKey")
    | project TimeGenerated, Resource, Region_s, OperationName, properties_s, Level, _ResourceId
    ```
- The following query shows the summary of failed operations in the last seven days. 

    ```kusto
    AzureDiagnostics
    | where TimeGenerated > ago(7d) //last 7 days
    | where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.STREAMANALYTICS" and status_s == "Failed" 
    | summarize Count=count(), sampleEvent=any(properties_s) by JobName=Resource        
    ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you select **Logs** from the Stream Analytics job menu, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current Stream Analytics job. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other Stream Analytics jobs or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/scope) for details.

For a list of common queries for Azure Stream Analytics, see the [Log Analytics queries interface](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/queries). 

## Alerts
Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric-overview), [logs](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-unified-log), and the [activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/activity-log-alerts). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks.



## Next steps

<!-- Add additional links. You can change the wording of these and add more if useful.   -->

- See [Monitoring Azure Stream Analytics data reference](monitor-azure-stream-analytics-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure Stream Analytics.
- See the following articles:
    - [Monitor jobs using Azure portal](stream-analytics-monitoring.md)
    - [Monitor jobs using Azure PowerShell](stream-analytics-monitor-and-manage-jobs-use-powershell.md)
    - [Monitor jobs using Azure .NET SDK](stream-analytics-monitor-jobs.md)
    - [Set up alerts](stream-analytics-set-up-alerts.md)
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource) for details on monitoring Azure resources.