---
title: Trusted Service JavaScript
description: This is the JavaScript version of creating a Trusted Service for Communication Services.
author: dademath
manager: nimag
services: azure-communication-services

ms.author: dademath
ms.date: 07/28/2020
ms.topic: include
ms.service: azure-communication-services
---
## Prerequisites

- An Azure account with an active subscription. For details, see [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F).
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) on one of the [supported platforms](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/supporting/requirements#_platforms).
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), Active LTS and Maintenance LTS versions (10.14.1 recommended). Use the `node --version` command to check your version. 
- The [Azure Functions extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurefunctions) for Visual Studio Code. 
- An active Communication Services resource and connection string. [Create a Communication Services resource](../../quickstarts/create-communication-resource.md).

## Overview

:::image type="content" source="../media/trusted-service-architecture.png" alt-text="Diagram for trusted service architecture":::

For this tutorial we'll be creating an Azure Function that will serve as a trusted token provisioning service. You can use this tutorial to bootstrap your own token provisioning service.

This service is responsible for authenticating users to Azure Communication Services. Users of your Communication Services applications will require an `Access Token` in order to participate in chat threads and VoIP calls. The Azure Function will work as a trusted middleman between the user and the Communication Services. This allows you to provision access tokens without exposing your resource connection string to your users.

For more information, see the [client-server architecture](../../concepts/client-and-server-architecture.md) and [authentication and authorization](../../concepts/authentication.md) conceptual documentation.

## Setting up

### Azure Functions set up

Let's first set up the basic structure for our Azure function. Step by step instructions on the set up can be found here: [Create a function using Visual Studio Code](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-javascript)

Our Azure Function requires the following configuration:

- Language: JavaScript
- Template: HTTP Trigger
- Authorization Level: Anonymous (This can be switched later if you prefer a different authorization model)
- Function Name: User defined

After following the [Azure Functions instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-javascript) with the above configuration, you should have a project in Visual Studio Code for the Azure Function with an `index.js` file that contains the function itself. The code inside of this file should be as follows:

```javascript

module.exports = async function (context, req) {
    context.log('JavaScript HTTP trigger function processed a request.');

    const name = (req.query.name || (req.body && req.body.name));
    const responseMessage = name
        ? "Hello, " + name + ". This HTTP triggered function executed successfully."
        : "This HTTP triggered function executed successfully. Pass a name in the query string or in the request body for a personalized response.";

    context.res = {
        // status: 200, /* Defaults to 200 */
        body: responseMessage
    };
}

```

We'll now proceed to install Azure Communication Services libraries.

### Install communication services libraries

We'll use the `Administration` library to generate `User Access Tokens`.

Use the `npm install` command to install the Azure Communication Services Administration client library for JavaScript.

```console

npm install @azure/communication-administration --save

```

The `--save` option lists the library as a dependency in your **package.json** file.

At the top of the `index.js` file, import the interface for the `CommunicationIdentityClient`

```javascript
const { CommunicationIdentityClient } = require('@azure/communication-administration');
```

## Access token generation

To allow our Azure Function to generate `User Access Tokens`, we'll first need use the connection string for our Communication Services resource.

Visit the [resource provisioning quickstart](../../quickstarts/create-communication-resource.md) for more information on retrieving your connection string.

``` javascript
const connectionString = 'INSERT YOUR RESOURCE CONNECTION STRING'
```

Next, we'll modify our original function to generate `User Access Tokens`. 

`User Access Tokens` are generated by creating a user from the `createUser` method. Once the user is created we can use the `issueToken` method to generate a token for that user which the Azure Function returns.

For this example, we will configure the token scope to `voip`. Other scopes might be necessary for your application. Learn more about [scopes](../../quickstarts/access-tokens.md)

```javascript
module.exports = async function (context, req) {
    let tokenClient = new CommunicationIdentityClient(connectionString);

    const user = await tokenClient.createUser();

    const userToken = await tokenClient.issueToken(user, ["voip"]);

    const response = {
        "User" : userToken.user,
        "Token": userToken.token,
        "ExpiresOn": userToken.expiresOn
    }

    context.res = {
        body: response
    };
}
```

For existing Communication Services `CommunicationUser`, you can skip the creation step and just generate an access token. More details found in the [Create user access tokens quickstart](../../quickstarts/access-tokens.md).

## Test the Azure Function

Run the Azure Function locally using `F5`. This will initialize the Azure Function locally and make it accessible through: `http://localhost:7071/api/FUNCTION_NAME`. Check out additional documentation on [running locally](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-javascript#run-the-function-locally)

Open the URL on your browser and you should see a response body with the Communication User Id, token and expiration for the token.

:::image type="content" source="../media/trusted-service-sample-response.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing a Response example for the created Azure Function.":::

## Deploy the Function to Azure

To deploy your Azure Function, you can follow [step by step instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-javascript#sign-in-to-azure)

Generally, you will need to:
1. Sign in to Azure from Visual Studio
2. Publish your project to your Azure account. Here you will need to choose an existing subscription.
3. Create a new Azure Function resource using the Visual Studio wizard or use an existing resource. For a new resource, you will need to configure it to your desired region, runtime and unique identifier.
4. Wait for deployment to finalize
5. Run the function 🎉

## Run Azure Function

Run the Azure function using the url `http://<function-appn-ame>.azurewebsites.net/api/<function-name>`

You can find the URL by right clicking the function on Visual Studio Code and copying the Function URL.

For more information on [running your Azure function](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-javascript#run-the-function-in-azure)
