---
title: Microsoft Azure Security Code Analysis Documentation
description: This article FAQs about the Security Code Analysis Extension
author: vharindra
manager: sukhans
ms.author: terrylan
ms.date: 07/18/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: security
services: azure

ms.assetid: 521180dc-2cc9-43f1-ae87-2701de7ca6b8
ms.devlang: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: na
---

# FAQs
Got questions? Check out below for more information. Still don't see it? No problem, just ask us at Microsoft Security Code Analysis Support

## General FAQs

### Can I install the extension on my TFS (not Azure DevOps) server? 

No, the extension isn't available for download and install for TFS.

### Do I have to run Microsoft Security Code Analysis with my build? 

Yes and no. Depending on the type of analysis tool, the source code itself may be the only thing that's required or the output of the build may be required. For example, since CredScan analyzes files within the folder structure of the code repository, you could run the CredScan and Publish Security Analysis logs build tasks in a standalone build to retrieve results.
For other tools that analyze post build artifacts, like BinSkim, the build will be required first.

### Can I use Microsoft Security Code Analysis to analyze the artifacts of a build that were published to Azure DevOps drop? 

No. At this time, we only support scanning files from within an Azure DevOps build.

### Can I break my build when results are found? 
Yes, you can introduce a build break when any tool reports an issue, a finding, in its log file. Just add the Post-Analysis build task and check the checkbox for any tool for which you would like to break the build. You can choose to break the build when any tool reports errors, or warnings and errors, in the UI of the Post-Analysis task.

### How are the command line arguments different in Azure DevOps than they are in the standalone desktop tools? 

For the most part, the Azure DevOps build tasks are direct wrappers around the command line arguments of the security tools. Anything you would normally pass to the tool on the command line from your desktop, you can pass to the Arguments input of the build task.
Here is a list of noticeable differences:
 - The tool will be executing from the source folder of the agent $(Build.SourcesDirectory) or %BUILD_SOURCESDIRECTORY%. Example: C:\agent\_work\1\s 
 - Paths in the Arguments can be relative to the root of the source directory listed above or absolute either by running an on-prem agent with known deployment locations of local resources or using Azure DevOps Build Variables
 - Tools will automatically provide an output file path or folder if an output path is provided, it will be removed and replaced with a path to our well-known logs location on the build agent
 - Some additional command line parameters are sanitized and removed on some tools, such as the addition or removal of options to ensure that no GUI is launched.

### Can I run a build task (for example, CredScan) across multiple repositories in an Azure DevOps Build? 

No, running the secure development tools against multiple repositories in a single pipeline is currently not supported.

###  The output file I specified is not being created / I can’t find the output file I specified 

The build tasks currently sanitize user input and update the location of the output file generated to a common location on the build agent. For more information on this location, see the following questions.

### Where are the output files generated by the tools saved? 

The build tasks automatically add output paths to the following well-known location on the build agent $(Agent.BuildDirectory)\_sdt\logs. By standardizing on this location, we can guarantee that other teams producing code analysis logs or consuming them will have access.

### Can I queue a build to run these tasks on a Hosted Build Agent? 

Yes, all tasks and tools in the extension can be executed on a hosted build agent.

>[!NOTE]
> The Anti-Malware build task requires a build agent with Windows Defender enabled, which is true on "Hosted VS2017" build agents. (It will not run on the legacy/VS2015 "Hosted" agent.)
Signatures cannot be updated on these agents, but the signature should always be relatively current, less than 3 hours old.
>

### Can I run these build tasks as part of a Release Pipeline (as opposed to a Build pipeline)? 
In most cases, Yes. 
However, tasks that publish artifacts are not supported by Azure DevOps to be run from within Release Pipelines: "The only category of tasks not expected to work with Release are the ones that publish artifacts. This is because, as of now, we don’t have support for publishing artifacts within Release".
This prevents the "Publish Security Analysis Logs" task from running successfully from a release pipeline; it will fail, with a descriptive error message.

### From where do the build tasks download the tools? 
The build tasks a) download NuGet packages for the tools from the following [Azure DevOps Package Management feed](https://securitytools.pkgs.visualstudio.com/_packaging/SecureDevelopmentTools/nuget/v3/index.json)
or using the Node Package Manager, which must be pre-installed on the build agent (example: "npm install tslint").

### What effect will installing the extension have on my Azure DevOps Organization? 

Upon installing, the security build tasks provided by the extension will become available for use by all users in your organization. When creating or editing a Azure pipeline, these tasks will be available to add from the build task collection list. Otherwise, installing the extension in your Azure DevOps organization has no impact. It does not modify any account or project settings or pipelines.

### Will installing the extension modify my existing Azure Pipelines? 

No. Installing the extension will make the security build tasks available to add to your Azure Pipelines. Users are still required to add or update build definitions to integrate the tools into your build process.

## Task specific FAQs

FAQs specific to build tasks will be listed in this section.

## Contact us

If you need additional assistance, Microsoft Security Code Analysis Support is available Monday through Friday from 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM Pacific Standard Time
Onboarding - Email our team at [Microsoft Security Code Analysis Onboarding](mailto:sdt-vsts@microsoft.com?Subject=Microsoft%20Security%20Code%20Analysis%20Onboarding)
Support - Email our team at [Microsoft Security Code Analysis Support](mailto:sdt-vsts@microsoft.com?Subject=Microsoft%20Security%20Code%20Analysis%20Support%20Request)