
<div title="This is rendered content from macro" class="umbMacroHolder" onresizestart="return false;" umbpageid="14787" umbversionid="c94b2841-7fd7-4c47-8f26-6badcf0a903a" ismacro="true" umb_chunkpath="devcenter/Menu" umb_modaltrigger="" umb_chunkurl="" umb_hide="0" umb_chunkname="NodeJSLeft" umb_modalpopup="0" umb_macroalias="AzureChunkDisplayer"><!-- startUmbMacro --><span><strong>Azure Chunk Displayer</strong><br />No macro content available for WYSIWYG editing</span><!-- endUmbMacro --></div>
<h1 id="menu-nodejs-e2e">End-to-End Apps</h1>
<h2>Web Site + Data</h2>
<h3 class="tutorial"><span>Tutorial: </span><a href="/en-us/develop/nodejs/tutorials/web-site-with-storage/">Connect an Express web site to Table storage</a></h3>
<p>The Windows Azure Table Service is a NoSQL storage service that is useful for working key/value pairs. Learn how to use this service by creating a Node.js 'task list' style application that uses the azure module to store data in the Table service. This tutorial also teaches you how to use the Windows Azure Cross-Platform Tools for Mac and Linux to create a Windows Azure Web Site.</p>
<h3 class="tutorial"><span>Tutorial: </span><a href="/en-us/develop/nodejs/tutorials/web-site-with-sql-database/">Connect an Express web site to SQL Database</a></h3>
<p>SQL Database provides a full-featured relational database-as-a-service. This tutorial demonstrates how to use SQL Database from a Node.js application. You will create a 'task list' web site that stores and accesses data in a SQL Database instance.</p>
<h3 class="tutorial"><span>Tutorial: </span><a href="/en-us/develop/nodejs/tutorials/website-with-mongodb-(mac)/">Store non-relational data using MongoDB</a></h3>
<p>MongoDB is a popular document-oriented NoSQL solution. In this tutorial you will learn how to create a Node.js 'task list' style application that stores data in a Windows Azure virtual machine hosting MongoDB. This tutorial also teaches you how to use the Windows Azure Cross-Platform Tools for Mac and Linux to create a Windows Azure Web Site.</p>
<h2>Cloud Service + Data</h2>
<h3 class="tutorial"><span>Tutorial: </span><a href="/en-us/develop/nodejs/tutorials/web-app-with-storage/">Connect an Express app hosted in a Cloud Service to Table storage</a></h3>
<p>The Windows Azure Table Service is a NoSQL storage service that is useful for working key/value pairs. Learn how to use this service by creating a Node.js 'task list' style application that uses the azure module to store data in the Table service.</p>