includes/app-service-web-vnet-regional.md, before:

---
author: ccompy
ms.service: app-service-web
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/08/2020
ms.author: ccompy
---
Using regional VNet Integration enables your app to access:

* Resources in a VNet in the same region as your app.
* Resources in VNets peered to the VNet your app is integrated with.
* Service endpoint secured services.
* Resources across Azure ExpressRoute connections.
* Resources in the VNet you're integrated with.
* Resources across peered connections, which includes Azure ExpressRoute connections.
* Private endpoints 

When you use VNet Integration with VNets in the same region, you can use the following Azure networking features:

* **Network security groups (NSGs)**: You can block outbound traffic with an NSG that's placed on your integration subnet. The inbound rules don't apply because you can't use VNet Integration to provide inbound access to your app.
* **Route tables (UDRs)**: You can place a route table on the integration subnet to send outbound traffic where you want.

By default, your app routes only RFC1918 traffic into your VNet. If you want to route all of your outbound traffic into your VNet, apply the app setting WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL to your app. To configure the app setting:

1. Go to the **Configuration** UI in your app portal. Select **New application setting**.
1. Enter **WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL** in the **Name** box, and enter **1** in the **Value** box.

   ![Provide application setting][4]

1. Select **OK**.
1. Select **Save**.

> [!NOTE]
> If you route all of your outbound traffic into your VNet, it's subject to the NSGs and UDRs that are applied to your integration subnet. When you route all of your outbound traffic into your VNet, your outbound addresses are still the outbound addresses that are listed in your app properties unless you provide routes to send the traffic elsewhere.

There are some limitations with using VNet Integration with VNets in the same region:

* You can't reach resources across global peering connections.
* The feature is available only from newer Azure App Service scale units that support PremiumV2 App Service plans. Note that *this does not mean your app must run on a PremiumV2 pricing tier*, only that it must run on an App Service Plan where the PremiumV2 option is available (which implies that it is a newer scale unit where this VNet integration feature is then also available).
* The integration subnet can be used by only one App Service plan.
* The feature can't be used by Isolated plan apps that are in an App Service Environment.
* The feature requires an unused subnet that's a /27 with 32 addresses or larger in an Azure Resource Manager VNet.
* The app and the VNet must be in the same region.
* You can't delete a VNet with an integrated app. Remove the integration before you delete the VNet.
* You can only integrate with VNets in the same subscription as the app.
* You can have only one regional VNet Integration per App Service plan. Multiple apps in the same App Service plan can use the same VNet.
* You can't change the subscription of an app or a plan while there's an app that's using regional VNet Integration.
* Your app cannot resolve addresses in Azure DNS Private Zones without configuration changes

One address is used for each plan instance. If you scale your app to five instances, then five addresses are used. Since subnet size can't be changed after assignment, you must use a subnet that's large enough to accommodate whatever scale your app might reach. A /26 with 64 addresses is the recommended size. A /26 with 64 addresses accommodates a Premium plan with 30 instances. When you scale a plan up or down, you need twice as many addresses for a short period of time.

If you want your apps in another plan to reach a VNet that's already connected to by apps in another plan, select a different subnet than the one being used by the preexisting VNet Integration.

The feature is fully supported for both Windows and Linux apps, including [custom containers](../articles/app-service/quickstart-custom-container.md). All of the behaviors act the same between Windows apps and Linux apps.

### Service endpoints

Regional VNet Integration enables you to use service endpoints. To use service endpoints with your app, use regional VNet Integration to connect to a selected VNet and then configure service endpoints with the destination service on the subnet you used for the integration. If you then wanted to access a service over service endpoints:

1. configure regional VNet Integration with your web app
1. go to the destination service and configure service endpoints against the subnet used for integration

### Network security groups

You can use network security groups to block inbound and outbound traffic to resources in a VNet. An app that uses regional VNet Integration can use a [network security group][VNETnsg] to block outbound traffic to resources in your VNet or the internet. To block traffic to public addresses, you must have the application setting WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL set to 1. The inbound rules in an NSG don't apply to your app because VNet Integration affects only outbound traffic from your app.

To control inbound traffic to your app, use the Access Restrictions feature. An NSG that's applied to your integration subnet is in effect regardless of any routes applied to your integration subnet. If WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL is set to 1 and you don't have any routes that affect public address traffic on your integration subnet, all of your outbound traffic is still subject to NSGs assigned to your integration subnet. If WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL isn't set, NSGs are only applied to RFC1918 traffic.

### Routes

You can use route tables to route outbound traffic from your app to wherever you want. By default, route tables only affect your RFC1918 destination traffic. If you set WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL to 1, all of your outbound calls are affected. Routes that are set on your integration subnet won't affect replies to inbound app requests. Common destinations can include firewall devices or gateways.

If you want to route all outbound traffic on-premises, you can use a route table to send all outbound traffic to your ExpressRoute gateway. If you do route traffic to a gateway, be sure to set routes in the external network to send any replies back.

Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) routes also affect your app traffic. If you have BGP routes from something like an ExpressRoute gateway, your app outbound traffic will be affected. By default, BGP routes affect only your RFC1918 destination traffic. If WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL is set to 1, all outbound traffic can be affected by your BGP routes.

### Azure DNS Private Zones 

After your app integrates with your VNet, it uses the same DNS server that your VNet is configured with. By default, your app won't work with Azure DNS Private Zones. To work with Azure DNS Private Zones you need to add the following app settings:

1. WEBSITE_DNS_SERVER with value 168.63.129.16 
1. WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL with value 1

These settings will send all of your outbound calls from your app into your VNet in addition to enabling your app to use Azure DNS private zones.

### Private endpoints

If you want to make calls to [Private Endpoints][privateendpoints], then you need to either integrate with Azure DNS Private Zones or manage the private endpoint in the DNS server used by your app. 

<!--Image references-->
[4]: ../includes/media/web-sites-integrate-with-vnet/vnetint-appsetting.png

<!--Links-->
[VNETnsg]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/security-overview/
[privateendpoints]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/networking/private-endpoint

Commit message:

(AzureCXP) fixes MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs#65678
Edited the AZURE DNS Private Zones section based on feedback to add clarity around the fact that Azure DNS is not used by default.

includes/app-service-web-vnet-regional.md, after:

---
author: ccompy
ms.service: app-service-web
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 06/08/2020
ms.author: ccompy
---
Using regional VNet Integration enables your app to access:

* Resources in a VNet in the same region as your app.
* Resources in VNets peered to the VNet your app is integrated with.
* Service endpoint secured services.
* Resources across Azure ExpressRoute connections.
* Resources in the VNet you're integrated with.
* Resources across peered connections, which includes Azure ExpressRoute connections.
* Private endpoints 

When you use VNet Integration with VNets in the same region, you can use the following Azure networking features:

* **Network security groups (NSGs)**: You can block outbound traffic with an NSG that's placed on your integration subnet. The inbound rules don't apply because you can't use VNet Integration to provide inbound access to your app.
* **Route tables (UDRs)**: You can place a route table on the integration subnet to send outbound traffic where you want.

By default, your app routes only RFC1918 traffic into your VNet. If you want to route all of your outbound traffic into your VNet, apply the app setting WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL to your app. To configure the app setting:

1. Go to the **Configuration** UI in your app portal. Select **New application setting**.
1. Enter **WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL** in the **Name** box, and enter **1** in the **Value** box.

   ![Provide application setting][4]

1. Select **OK**.
1. Select **Save**.

> [!NOTE]
> If you route all of your outbound traffic into your VNet, it's subject to the NSGs and UDRs that are applied to your integration subnet. When you route all of your outbound traffic into your VNet, your outbound addresses are still the outbound addresses that are listed in your app properties unless you provide routes to send the traffic elsewhere.

There are some limitations with using VNet Integration with VNets in the same region:

* You can't reach resources across global peering connections.
* The feature is available only from newer Azure App Service scale units that support PremiumV2 App Service plans. Note that *this does not mean your app must run on a PremiumV2 pricing tier*, only that it must run on an App Service Plan where the PremiumV2 option is available (which implies that it is a newer scale unit where this VNet integration feature is then also available).
* The integration subnet can be used by only one App Service plan.
* The feature can't be used by Isolated plan apps that are in an App Service Environment.
* The feature requires an unused subnet that's a /27 with 32 addresses or larger in an Azure Resource Manager VNet.
* The app and the VNet must be in the same region.
* You can't delete a VNet with an integrated app. Remove the integration before you delete the VNet.
* You can only integrate with VNets in the same subscription as the app.
* You can have only one regional VNet Integration per App Service plan. Multiple apps in the same App Service plan can use the same VNet.
* You can't change the subscription of an app or a plan while there's an app that's using regional VNet Integration.
* Your app cannot resolve addresses in Azure DNS Private Zones without configuration changes

One address is used for each plan instance. If you scale your app to five instances, then five addresses are used. Since subnet size can't be changed after assignment, you must use a subnet that's large enough to accommodate whatever scale your app might reach. A /26 with 64 addresses is the recommended size. A /26 with 64 addresses accommodates a Premium plan with 30 instances. When you scale a plan up or down, you need twice as many addresses for a short period of time.

If you want your apps in another plan to reach a VNet that's already connected to by apps in another plan, select a different subnet than the one being used by the preexisting VNet Integration.

The feature is fully supported for both Windows and Linux apps, including [custom containers](../articles/app-service/quickstart-custom-container.md). All of the behaviors act the same between Windows apps and Linux apps.

### Service endpoints

Regional VNet Integration enables you to use service endpoints. To use service endpoints with your app, use regional VNet Integration to connect to a selected VNet and then configure service endpoints with the destination service on the subnet you used for the integration. If you then wanted to access a service over service endpoints:

1. configure regional VNet Integration with your web app
1. go to the destination service and configure service endpoints against the subnet used for integration

### Network security groups

You can use network security groups to block inbound and outbound traffic to resources in a VNet. An app that uses regional VNet Integration can use a [network security group][VNETnsg] to block outbound traffic to resources in your VNet or the internet. To block traffic to public addresses, you must have the application setting WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL set to 1. The inbound rules in an NSG don't apply to your app because VNet Integration affects only outbound traffic from your app.

To control inbound traffic to your app, use the Access Restrictions feature. An NSG that's applied to your integration subnet is in effect regardless of any routes applied to your integration subnet. If WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL is set to 1 and you don't have any routes that affect public address traffic on your integration subnet, all of your outbound traffic is still subject to NSGs assigned to your integration subnet. If WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL isn't set, NSGs are only applied to RFC1918 traffic.

### Routes

You can use route tables to route outbound traffic from your app to wherever you want. By default, route tables only affect your RFC1918 destination traffic. If you set WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL to 1, all of your outbound calls are affected. Routes that are set on your integration subnet won't affect replies to inbound app requests. Common destinations can include firewall devices or gateways.

If you want to route all outbound traffic on-premises, you can use a route table to send all outbound traffic to your ExpressRoute gateway. If you do route traffic to a gateway, be sure to set routes in the external network to send any replies back.

Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) routes also affect your app traffic. If you have BGP routes from something like an ExpressRoute gateway, your app outbound traffic will be affected. By default, BGP routes affect only your RFC1918 destination traffic. If WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL is set to 1, all outbound traffic can be affected by your BGP routes.

### Azure DNS Private Zones 

After your app integrates with your VNet, it uses the same DNS server that your VNet is configured with. By default, your app won't work with Azure DNS Private Zones. To work with Azure DNS Private Zones, you need to add the following app settings:

1. WEBSITE_DNS_SERVER with value 168.63.129.16
1. WEBSITE_VNET_ROUTE_ALL with value 1

These settings will send all the outbound calls from your app into your VNet. Additionally, it will enable the app to use Azure DNS by querying the Private DNS Zone at the worker level. This functionality is to be used when a running app is accessing a Private DNS Zone.

> [!NOTE]
>Trying to add a custom domain to a Web App using Private DNS Zone is not possible with the VNET Integration. Custom domain validation is done at the controller level, not the worker level, which prevents the DNS records from being seen. To use a custom domain from a Private DNS Zone, validation would need to be bypassed using an Application Gateway or ILB App Service Environment.



### Private endpoints

If you want to make calls to [Private Endpoints][privateendpoints], then you need to either integrate with Azure DNS Private Zones or manage the private endpoint in the DNS server used by your app. 

<!--Image references-->
[4]: ../includes/media/web-sites-integrate-with-vnet/vnetint-appsetting.png

<!--Links-->
[VNETnsg]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/security-overview/
[privateendpoints]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/networking/private-endpoint
