---
 services: storage
 author: normesta
 ms.service: storage
 ms.topic: include
 ms.date: 09/29/2020
 ms.author: normesta
 ms.custom: include file
---

Always use [Azure AD security groups](../articles/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-manage-groups.md) as the assigned principal in an ACL entry. Resist the opportunity to directly assign individual users or service principals. Using this structure will allow you to add and remove users or service principals without the need to reapply ACLs to an entire directory structure. Instead, you can just add or remove users and service principals from the appropriate Azure AD security group. 

There are many different ways to set up groups. For example, imagine that you have a directory named **/LogData** which holds log data that is generated by your server. Azure Data Factory (ADF) ingests data into that folder. Specific users from the service engineering team will upload logs and manage other users of this folder, and various Databricks clusters will analyze logs from that folder. 

To enable these activities, you could create a `LogsWriter` group and a `LogsReader` group. Then, you could assign permissions as follows:

- Add the `LogsWriter` group to the ACL of the **/LogData** directory with `rwx` permissions.
- Add the `LogsReader` group to the ACL of the **/LogData** directory with `r-x` permissions.
- Add the service principal object or Managed Service Identity (MSI) for ADF to the `LogsWriters` group.
- Add users in the service engineering team to the `LogsWriter` group.
- Add the service principal object or MSI for Databricks to the `LogsReader` group.

If a user in the service engineering team leaves the company, you could just remove them from the `LogsWriter` group. If you did not add that user to a group, but instead, you added a dedicated ACL entry for that user, you would have to remove that ACL entry from the **/LogData** directory. You would also have to remove the entry from all subdirectories and files in the entire directory hierarchy of the **/LogData** directory. 

To create a group and add members, see [Create a basic group and add members using Azure Active Directory](../articles/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-groups-create-azure-portal.md).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 depends on Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) to manage security groups. Azure AD recommends that you limit group membership for a given security principal to less than 200. This recommendation is due to a limitation of JSON Web Tokens (JWT) that provide a security principal's group membership information within Azure AD applications. Exceeding this limit might lead to unexpected performance issues with Data Lake Storage Gen2. To learn more, see [Configure group claims for applications by using Azure Active Directory](../articles//active-directory/hybrid/connect/how-to-connect-fed-group-claims.md).