includes/azure-storage-logs-properties-authentication.md, before:

---
 author: normesta
 ms.service: storage
 ms.topic: include
 ms.date: 09/28/2020
 ms.author: normesta
---

| Property | Description |
|:--- |:---|
|**identity / type** | The type of authentication that was used to make the request. For example: `OAuth`, `Kerberos`, `SAS Key`, `Account Key`, or `Anonymous` |
|**identity / tokenHash**|The SHA-256 hash of the authentication token used on the request. <br>When the authentication type is `Account Key`, the format is "key1 \| key2 (SHA256 hash of the key)". For example: `key1(5RTE343A6FEB12342672AFD40072B70D4A91BGH5CDF797EC56BF82B2C3635CE)`. <br>When authentication type is `SAS Key`, the format is "key1 \| key2 (SHA 256 hash of the key),SasSignature(SHA 256 hash of the SAS token)". For example: `key1(0A0XE8AADA354H19722ED12342443F0DC8FAF3E6GF8C8AD805DE6D563E0E5F8A),SasSignature(04D64C2B3A704145C9F1664F201123467A74D72DA72751A9137DDAA732FA03CF)`. When authentication type is `OAuth`, the format is "SHA 256 hash of the OAuth token". For example: `B3CC9D5C64B3351573D806751312317FE4E910877E7CBAFA9D95E0BE923DD25C`<br> For other authentication types, there is no tokenHash field. |
|**authorization / action** | The action that is assigned to the request. |
|**authorization / roleAssignmentId** | The role assignment ID. For example: `4e2521b7-13be-4363-aeda-111111111111`.|
|**authorization / roleDefinitionId** | The role definition ID. For example: `ba92f5b4-2d11-453d-a403-111111111111"`.|
|**principals / id** | The ID of the security principal. For example: `a4711f3a-254f-4cfb-8a2d-111111111111`.|
|**principals / type** | The type of security principal. For example: `ServicePrincipal`. |
|**requester / appID** | The Open Authorization (OAuth) application ID that is used as the requester. <br> For example: `d3f7d5fe-e64a-4e4e-871d-333333333333`.|
|**requester / audience** | The OAuth audience of the request. For example: `https://storage.azure.com`. |
|**requester / objectId** | The OAuth object ID of the requester. In case of Kerberos authentication, represents the object identifier of Kerberos authenticated user. For example: `0e0bf547-55e5-465c-91b7-2873712b249c`. |
|**requester / tenantId** | The OAuth tenant ID of identity. For example: `72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-222222222222`.|
|**requester / tokenIssuer** | The OAuth token issuer. For example: `https://sts.windows.net/72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-222222222222/`.|
|**requester / upn** | The User Principal Name (UPN) of requestor. For example: `someone@contoso.com`. |
|**requester / userName** | This field is reserved for internal use only.|

Commit message:

add new properties to storage monitoring auth ref

includes/azure-storage-logs-properties-authentication.md, after:

---
 author: normesta
 ms.service: storage
 ms.topic: include
 ms.date: 05/26/2023
 ms.author: normesta
---

| Property | Description |
|:--- |:---|
|**identity / type** | The type of authentication that was used to make the request. For example: `OAuth`, `Kerberos`, `SAS Key`, `Account Key`, or `Anonymous` |
|**identity / tokenHash**|The SHA-256 hash of the authentication token used on the request. <br>When the authentication type is `Account Key`, the format is "key1 \| key2 (SHA256 hash of the key)". For example: `key1(5RTE343A6FEB12342672AFD40072B70D4A91BGH5CDF797EC56BF82B2C3635CE)`. <br>When authentication type is `SAS Key`, the format is "key1 \| key2 (SHA 256 hash of the key),SasSignature(SHA 256 hash of the SAS token)". For example: `key1(0A0XE8AADA354H19722ED12342443F0DC8FAF3E6GF8C8AD805DE6D563E0E5F8A),SasSignature(04D64C2B3A704145C9F1664F201123467A74D72DA72751A9137DDAA732FA03CF)`. When authentication type is `OAuth`, the format is "SHA 256 hash of the OAuth token". For example: `B3CC9D5C64B3351573D806751312317FE4E910877E7CBAFA9D95E0BE923DD25C`<br> For other authentication types, there is no tokenHash field. |
|**authorization / action** | The action that is assigned to the request. |
|**authorization / roleAssignmentId** | The role assignment ID. For example: `4e2521b7-13be-4363-aeda-111111111111`.|
|**authorization / roleDefinitionId** | The role definition ID. For example: `ba92f5b4-2d11-453d-a403-111111111111"`.|
|**principals / id** | The ID of the security principal. For example: `a4711f3a-254f-4cfb-8a2d-111111111111`.|
|**principals / type** | The type of security principal. For example: `ServicePrincipal`. |
|**properties / metricResponseType** | The type of response from the metrics transaction. <br> For examples, see the metrics dimensions for your storage service: <br> [blobs](../articles/storage/blobs/monitor-blob-storage-reference.md#metrics-dimensions) <br> [files](../articles/storage/files/storage-files-monitoring-reference.md#metrics-dimensions) <br> [queues](../articles/storage/queues/monitor-queue-storage-reference.md#transaction-metrics) <br> [tables](../articles/storage/tables/monitor-table-storage-reference.md#metrics-dimensions). |
|**properties / objectKey** | The path to the object being modified. For example: `samplestorageaccount/container1/blob.png`. |
|**requester / appID** | The Open Authorization (OAuth) application ID that is used as the requester. <br> For example: `d3f7d5fe-e64a-4e4e-871d-333333333333`.|
|**requester / audience** | The OAuth audience of the request. For example: `https://storage.azure.com`. |
|**requester / objectId** | The OAuth object ID of the requester. In case of Kerberos authentication, represents the object identifier of Kerberos authenticated user. For example: `0e0bf547-55e5-465c-91b7-2873712b249c`. |
|**requester / tenantId** | The OAuth tenant ID of identity. For example: `72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-222222222222`.|
|**requester / tokenIssuer** | The OAuth token issuer. For example: `https://sts.windows.net/72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-222222222222/`.|
|**requester / upn** | The User Principal Name (UPN) of requestor. For example: `someone@contoso.com`. |
|**requester / userName** | This field is reserved for internal use only.|
