Records of high energy gamma particle bursts along with background noise, both simulated using a Monte Carlo process.<p> </p>The intent of the simulation was to improve the accuracy of ground-based atmospheric Cherenkov gamma telescopes, using statistical methods to differentiate between the desired signal (Cherenkov radiation showers) and background noise (hadronic showers initiated by cosmic rays in the upper atmosphere).<p> </p>The data has been pre-processed to create an elongated cluster with the long axis is oriented towards the camera center. The characteristics of this ellipse, (often called Hillas parameters) are among the image parameters that can be used for discrimination.<p> </p><b>Usage:</b> Predict whether image of a shower represents signal or background noise.<p> </p><b>Notes:</b> Simple classification accuracy is not meaningful for this data, since classifying a background event as signal is worse than classifying a signal event as background. For comparison of different classifiers the ROC graph should be used. The probability of accepting a background event as signal must be below one of the following thresholds: 0.01 , 0.02 , 0.05 , 0.1 , or 0.2.<p> </p>Also, note that the number of background events (h, for hadronic showers) is underestimated, whereas in real measurements, the h or noise class represents the majority of events. <p> </p><b>Related Research:</b> Bock, R.K. (1995). UCI Machine Learning Repository <a href="http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml">http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml</a>. Irvine, CA: University of California, School of Information