## <a name="what-is"></a>What is Mobile Services

Azure Mobile Services is highly scalable, globally available mobile application development platform. Mobile Services brings together a set of Azure services that makes it easy to create full function mobile device apps using Azure. 

With Mobile Services you can: 

+ **Build native and cross platform apps** - native client SDKs lets you connect your mobile service to your native iOS, Android, Windows, or cross-platform Xamarin or Cordova (Phonegap) apps.  
+ **Send push notifications to your users** - Notification Hubs integration lets you engage with users by sending personalized push notifications when needed to any device.
+ **Authenticate your users** - leverage popular identity providers like Facebook and Twitter to authenticate your app users.
+ **Store data in the cloud** - while user data is stored by default in a SQL Database, your mobile service can be customized to store data in Mongo DB, DocumentDB, Azure Tables or even Azure Blobs. 
+ **Build offline-ready apps with sync** - make your apps work offline and use Mobile Services to sync data in the background when connectivity is present.
+ **Monitor and scale your apps** - you can monitor app usage and scale your backend as demand for you app grows. 


## <a name="concepts"> </a>Mobile Services Concepts

The following are important features and concepts in the Mobile Services:


+ **Application key:** a unique value that is generated by Mobile Services, distributed with your app, and presented in client-generated requests. While useful for limiting access to your mobile service from random clients, this key is not secure and should not be used to authenticate users of your app.    
+ **Authentication token:** the access token that is generated by Mobile Services after a user is authenticated by a trusted *identity provider*.
+ **Identity provider:** an external service, trusted by Mobile Services, that authenticates your app's users. Supported providers include: Facebook, Twitter, Google, Microsoft Account, and Azure Active Directory. 
+ **Push notification:** Service-initiated message that is sent to a registered device or user using Azure Notification Hubs.
+ **Scale:** The ability to add, for an additional cost, more processing power, performance, and storage as your app becomes more popular.
+ **Scheduled job:** Custom code that is run either on a pre-determined schedule or on-demand.