includes/storage-failover-unplanned-hns-preview-include.md, before:

---
title: "include file"
description: "include file"
services: storage
author: stevenmatthew
ms.service: azure-storage
ms.subservice: common-concepts
ms.topic: "include"
ms.date: 08/05/2024
ms.author: shaas
ms.custom: "include file", references_regions
---

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Customer-managed (unplanned) failover for accounts that have Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 enabled is currently in PREVIEW and supported in all public GRS regions. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Customer-managed (unplanned) failover for accounts that have SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) enabled is currently in PREVIEW and only supported in the following regions:
>
> - (Asia Pacific) Central India
> - (Asia Pacific) South East Asia
> - (Europe) North Europe
> - (Europe) Switzerland North
> - (Europe) Switzerland West
> - (Europe) West Europe
> - (North America) Canada Central
> - (North America) East US 2
> - (North America) South Central US
>
> To opt in to the preview, see [Set up preview features in Azure subscription](../articles/azure-resource-manager/management/preview-features.md) and specify `AllowHNSAccountFailover` as the feature name.
>
> See the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/) for legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
>
> In the event of a significant disaster that affects the primary region, Microsoft will manage the failover for accounts with a hierarchical namespace. For more information, see [Microsoft-managed failover](../articles/storage/common/storage-disaster-recovery-guidance.md#microsoft-managed-failover).

Commit message:

Changed ADLS preview regiuons per Imani.

includes/storage-failover-unplanned-hns-preview-include.md, after:

---
title: "include file"
description: "include file"
services: storage
author: stevenmatthew
ms.service: azure-storage
ms.subservice: common-concepts
ms.topic: "include"
ms.date: 08/14/2024
ms.author: shaas
ms.custom: "include file", references_regions
---

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Customer-managed (unplanned) failover for accounts that have Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 enabled is currently in PREVIEW and supported in all public GRS/GZRS regions. To opt in to the preview, see [Set up preview features in Azure subscription](../articles/azure-resource-manager/management/preview-features.md) and specify `AllowHNSAccountFailover` as the feature name.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Customer-managed (unplanned) failover for accounts that have SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) enabled is currently in PREVIEW and only supported in the following regions:
>
> - (Asia Pacific) Central India
> - (Asia Pacific) South East Asia
> - (Europe) North Europe
> - (Europe) Switzerland North
> - (Europe) Switzerland West
> - (Europe) West Europe
> - (North America) Canada Central
> - (North America) East US 2
> - (North America) South Central US
>
> To opt in to the preview, see [Set up preview features in Azure subscription](../articles/azure-resource-manager/management/preview-features.md) and specify `AllowHNSAccountFailover` as the feature name.
>
> See the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/) for legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
>
> In the event of a significant disaster that affects the primary region, Microsoft will manage the failover for accounts with a hierarchical namespace. For more information, see [Microsoft-managed failover](../articles/storage/common/storage-disaster-recovery-guidance.md#microsoft-managed-failover).
