Changes made to the Azure Files share by using the Azure portal, Server Message Block (SMB), or REST are not immediately detected and replicated like changes to the Server Endpoint. Azure Files does not yet have change notifications and journaling, so there's no way to automatically initiate a sync session when files are changed. On Windows Server, Azure File Sync uses [Windows update sequence numbering (USN) journaling](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/aa363798.aspx) to automatically initiate a sync session when files change.</br></br>
To detect changes to the Azure Files share, Azure File Sync has a scheduled job called a *change detection job*. A change detection job enumerates every file in the file share, and then compares it to the sync version for that file. When the change detection job determines that files have changed, Azure File Sync initiates a sync session. The change detection job is initiated every 24 hours. Because the change detection job works by enumerating every file in the Azure Files share, large namespaces take longer than smaller namespaces to enumerate and compare file versions. For these namespaces, it might take longer than once every 24 hours to determine which files have changed.</br></br>
We would like to add a change detection feature in Azure Files that's similar to USN on Windows Server. Help us prioritize this feature for future development by voting for it at the [Azure Files UserVoice](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/217298-storage/category/180670-files).
