The virtual network gateway uses specific subnet called the 'gateway subnet'. You must always create a gateway subnet if you want to create a VPN gateway connection. The IP addresses that are specified in the gateway subnet are part of the virtual network IP address range that you specify when configuring your virtual network. Some of the resources and services that are used by the VPN gateway require IP addresses. Gateway subnet IP addresses are allocated to these gateway services. For this reason, never deploy anything directly to the gateway subnet, such as VMs or any other resources.

When you create a gateway subnet, you specify the number of IP addresses that the gateway subnet contains. The size of the gateway subnet that you specify depends on the VPN gateway configuration that you want to create. Some configurations require more IP addresses than others. The instructions in the article specify when a certain sized gateway subnet is required. While it is technically possible to create a gateway subnet as small as /29, we recommend that in general, you create a larger subnet that includes more addresses by selecting /27 or /28. Using a larger gateway subnet allows for enough IP addresses to be allocated to the gateway services to accommodate possible future configurations.

When you create a gateway subnet, it must be named 'GatewaySubnet'. Naming subnet 'GatewaySubnet' tells Azure where to create the gateway services. If you name the subnet something else, your VPN gateway configuration will fail.
