---
title: Pricing in Azure Container Apps preview
description: Learn how billing is calculated in Azure Container Apps preview
services: container-apps
author: craigshoemaker
ms.service: container-apps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/25/2022
ms.author: cshoe
---

# Pricing in Azure Container Apps preview

Pricing calculations are dependant on two factors:

* The number of running replicas in relation to the [minReplicas](scale-app.md) value.
* The [active or idle state](#active-vs-idle-states) of a replicas within the `minReplicas` range.

Replicas fall into two different categories:

* **Baseline replicas** are replicas within the `minReplicas` threshold. For instance, if the `minReplicas` value is set to `2`, the first two replicas created are considered *baseline replicas*. As the container app scales, any additional replicas generated by the scaler are not baseline replicas.

* **Scaled replicas** are replicas generated by the scaler after baseline replicas are created. A scaled replica never goes into an idle state, because its disposed of by the scaler based on the container app's scaling rules.

Therefore, pricing is determined with the following criteria:

* Billing occurs on a per-replica basis.
* Replicas are billed on a per-second basis.
* Baseline replicas are billed at different rates according its [active vs idle state](#active-vs-idle-states).
* Scaled replicas are billed at the active rate during the time the replica is alive.
* Any active replicas are billed based on the total amount of vCPU and memory allocated to all containers in a replica.​
* External HTTP requests made to any replica incur a request charge.
* No usage charges are billed when nothing is running.

Each calendar month, the following items are included for free<sup>1</sup>, per subscription:

| Metric | Quantity |
|--|--|
| Requests | ?? |
| vCPU seconds | ?? |
| GiB-seconds | ?? |
  
<sup>1</sup> The free grant applies to the total resources consumed when replicas are in either in an active or idle state.

## Active vs idle states

The state of a replica is determined by the replica's use of compute resources. Compute resource include any use of CPU, memory, or networking resources.

Each replica in a container app exists either in an active or idle state.

* **Active**: Any replica that uses compute resources, is starting up, or is handling external HTTP requests is in an active state.
* **Idle**: Only baseline replicas can enter the idle state. The idle state is achieved when a baseline replica ceases to use compute resources, or is not handling external HTTP requests.

  A scaled replica never goes into an idle state, because its disposed of by the scaler based on the container app's scaling rules.
