---
title: Apply the KeyVault VM Extension in Cloud Services (extended support) 
description: Enable KeyVault VM Extension for Cloud Services (extended support)
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: cloud-services-extended-support
author: shisriva
ms.author: shisriva
ms.reviewer: mimckitt
ms.date: 05/12/2021
ms.custom: 
---

# Apply the KeyVault VM extension to Azure Cloud Services (extended support)

## What is the Key Vault VM Extension?
The Key Vault VM extension provides automatic refresh of certificates stored in an Azure Key Vault. Specifically, the extension monitors a list of observed certificates stored in key vaults, and upon detecting a change, retrieves, and installs the corresponding certificates. For more details refer to the documentation [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/extensions/key-vault-windows)

## What's new in the Key Vault VM Extension?
The Key Vault VM extension is now supported on the Azure Cloud Services (extended support) platform to enable the management of certificates end to end. The extension can now pull certificates from a configured Key Vault at a pre-defined polling interval and install them for use by the service. 

## How can I leverage the Key Vault VM Extension for my service on the Azure Cloud Services (extended support) platform?
The following tutorial will show you how to install the Key Vault VM extension on PaaSV1 (CSES) services by first creating a bootstrap certificate in your vault to get a token from AAD that will help in the authentication of the extension with the vault. Once the authentication process is set up and the extension is installed all latest certificates will be pulled down automatically at regular polling intervals. 

Let us now go through the detailed steps below:

* Generate a certificate in your vault and download the .cer for that certificate.
* Create an AAD via the Azure Portal:
    - Navigate to https://portal.azure.com and search or click on App Registrations as shown below:
    
        :::image type="content" source="media/AppRegistration.jpg":::

    - On the App Registrations page click on "New Registration" on the top left corner of the page
    
        :::image type="content" source="media/AppRegistration0.JPG":::

    - On the next page you can fill the form and complete the app creation.
* You can now upload the .cer of the certificate to the AAD app portal.
* Optionally you can also leverage the Key Vault Event Grid notification [feature](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/azure-key-vault-event-grid-integration-is-now-available/) for the certificate to have a seamless experience unlike the manual (Step 2) operation to upload the .cer. You can create a workflow such as this:
    - Write a script that listens to Event Grid Notifications generated by Key Vault.
    - The script should consume the "CertificateNewVersionCreated" event for the certificate in Step 1.
    - The script can then upload the .cer for that certificate to AAD upon receiving the event.
* Grant the AAD app secret list/get permissions in Key Vault:
    - If you are using RBAC preview, then search for the name of the AAD app you created and assign it to the Key Vault Secrets User (preview) role.
    - If you are using vault access policies, then assign "Secret-Get" permissions to the AAD app you created. You can [learn more here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/general/assign-access-policy-portal)
* Install first version of the certificates created in the first step and the Key Vault VM extension using the ARM template as shown below:

```json
    {
   "osProfile":{
      "secrets":[
         {
            "sourceVault":{
               "id":"[parameters('sourceVaultValue')]"
            },
            "vaultCertificates":[
               {
                  "certificateUrl":"[parameters('bootstrpCertificateUrlValue')]"
               }
            ]
         }
      ]
   }{
      "name":"KVVMExtensionForPaaS",
      "properties":{
         "type":"KeyVaultForPaaS",
         "autoUpgradeMinorVersion":true,
         "typeHandlerVersion":"1.0",
         "publisher":"Microsoft.Azure.KeyVault",
         "settings":{
            "secretsManagementSettings":{
               "pollingIntervalInS":"3600",
               "certificateStoreName":"My",
               "certificateStoreLocation":"LocalMachine",
               "linkOnRenewal":false,
               "requireInitialSync":false, 
               "observedCertificates":"[parameters('keyVaultObservedCertificates']"
            },
            "authenticationSettings":{
               "clientId":"Your AAD app ID",
               "clientCertificateSubjectName":"Your boot strap certificate subject name [Do not include the 'CN=' in the subject name]"
            }
         }
      }
   }
```
You might need to specify the certificate store for boot strap certificate in ServiceDefinition.csdef like below:

```xml
    <Certificates>
             <Certificate name="bootstrapcert" storeLocation="LocalMachine" storeName="My" />
    </Certificates> 
```