---
title: Submit SharePoint Add-ins for Office 365 operated by 21Vianet in China
description: Submit an additional copy of your add-in if you wish to distribute your add-in to Chinese users of Office 365 operated by 21Vianet.
ms.date: 11/27/2017 
---

# Submit SharePoint Add-ins for Office 365 operated by 21Vianet in China

> [!NOTE]
> If your add-in is not a SharePoint Add-in that requires OAuth authentication, this does not apply to you. 
 
Office 365 operated by [21Vianet](http://www.en.21vianet.com/) is powered by the technology that Microsoft has licensed to 21Vianet.

Microsoft does not operate the service itself; 21Vianet operates, provides, and manages delivery of the service. 21Vianet is the largest carrier-neutral Internet data center services provider in China. It provides hosting, managed network services, and cloud computing infrastructure services. Microsoft licenses Office 365 to 21Vianet, who then uses it to set up Office 365 data centers for their users in China. 21Vianet operates local Office 365 data centers and provides Office 365 services to users in China while keeping their data within China. 21Vianet also provides user subscription and billing services, as well as support. 
 
> [!NOTE]
> These services are subject to Chinese law.

A SharePoint Add-in that requires OAuth authentication uses an OAuth client ID and client secret generated by Microsoft Azure services. The authorization server is Azure Access Control service. 
 
The client ID and client secret providers in China are different from the providers for the rest of the world. The client ID and client secret providers in China are hosted in different data centers from the providers for the rest of the world. The Seller Dashboard has the capability to create client ID and client secrets for the China data center and for the global data center.
 
> [!NOTE]
> For more information about OAuth, see [Authorization and authentication of SharePoint Add-ins](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/sp-add-ins/authorization-and-authentication-of-sharepoint-add-ins) and [Context Token OAuth flow for SharePoint Add-ins](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/sp-add-ins/context-token-oauth-flow-for-sharepoint-add-ins).

Because your SharePoint Add-in that requires OAuth authentication has to be associated with a client ID and client secret, you need to submit an additional copy of your add-in if you wish to distribute your add-in to Chinese users of Office 365 operated by 21Vianet. This requires submitting two separate copies of your app—one submission using the client ID for China and targeting Chinese users of Office 365 operated by 21Vianet, and the other submission using the client ID for the rest of the world. When you submit your add-in in the Seller Dashboard for distribution in China, you block access for all countries except China. In addition, you also create a separate add-in listing.
 
If you only wish to distribute your add-in to Chinese users of Office 365 operated by 21Vianet, you only need to submit one add-in listing and use the client ID for China. 

Similarly, if you do not wish to distribute to China, you only need to submit one add-in listing and use the global (non-China) client ID.
 
## Additional resources

- [Use the Seller Dashboard to submit your solution to the Office Store](use-the-seller-dashboard-to-submit-to-the-office-store.md)
- [Create or update client IDs and secrets in the Seller Dashboard](create-or-update-client-ids-and-secrets.md)
- [Validation policies for apps and add-ins submitted to the Office Store](validation-policies.md)
- [Submit your solutions to the Office Store](submit-to-the-office-store.md)
    
 

