---
title: Monitoring Azure SQL Database with Azure Monitor
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure SQL Database with Azure Monitor
author: WilliamDAssafMSFT
ms.author: wiassaf
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.reviewer: mathoma
ms.service: sql-db-mi
ms.subservice: performance
ms.custom: subject-monitoring
ms.date: 06/08/2021
---

# Monitoring Azure SQL Database with Azure Monitor SQL insights

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation. 

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure SQL Database, using the Azure Monitor insight for SQL (preview). Azure SQL Database can be monitored by [Azure Monitor](../../azure-monitor/overview.md). If you are unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md).

> [!NOTE]
> For more on using Azure Monitor SQL insights for all products in the [Azure SQL family](../../azure-sql/index.yml), see [Monitor your SQL deployments with SQL insights](../../azure-monitor/insights/sql-insights-overview.md).

## Monitoring overview page in Azure portal

View your Azure Monitor metrics for all connected resources by going to the Azure Monitor page directly in the Azure Portal. Or, on the **Overview** page of an Azure SQL DB, click on **Metrics** under the Monitoring heading to reach Azure Monitor.

## Azure Monitor SQL insights

Some services in Azure have a focused, pre-built monitoring dashboard in the Azure portal that can be enabled to provide a starting point for monitoring your service. These special dashboards are called "insights" and are not enabled by default. For more information, see the [SQL insights (preview)](../../azure-monitor/insights/sql-insights-overview.md).

After creating a monitoring profile, you can configure your Azure Monitor SQL insights for SQL-specific metrics for Azure SQL Database and SQL Managed Instance.

## Monitoring data 

Azure SQL Database collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](../../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md). 

See [Monitoring Azure SQL Database with Azure Monitor reference](monitoring-sql-database-azure-monitor-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs metrics created by Azure SQL Database.

## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

Resource Logs are not collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations. Resource logs were previously referred to as diagnostic logs.

Diagnostic settings available include:

- **log**: SQLInsights, AutomaticTuning, QueryStoreRuntimeStatistics, QueryStoreWaitStatistics, Errors, DatabaseWaitStatistics, Timeouts, Blocks, Deadlocks    
- **metric**: Basic, InstanceAndAppAdvanced, WorkloadManagement
- **destination details**: Send to Log Analytics workspace, Archive to a storage account, Stream to an event hub, Send to partner solution
    - The Log Analytics solution is recommended. For more information on these options, see [Create diagnostic settings in Azure portal](../../azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings.md#create-in-azure-portal).

For more information on the resource logs and diagnostics available, see [Diagnostic telemetry for export](metrics-diagnostic-telemetry-logging-streaming-export-configure.md?tabs=azure-portal#diagnostic-telemetry-for-export). 

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](../../azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings.md) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for Azure SQL Database are listed in [Azure SQL Database monitoring data reference](monitoring-sql-database-azure-monitor-reference.md#resource-logs).

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for Azure SQL Database with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](../../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started.md) for details on using this tool. 

For a list of the platform metrics collected for Azure SQL Database, see [Monitoring Azure SQL Database data reference metrics](monitoring-sql-database-azure-monitor-reference.md#metrics)  

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](../../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported.md).

## Analyzing logs

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](../../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema.md) The schema for Azure SQL Database resource logs is found in the [Azure SQL Database Data Reference](monitoring-sql-database-azure-monitor-reference.md#schemas).

The [Activity log](../../azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log.md) is a type of platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.  

For a list of the types of resource logs collected for Azure SQL Database, see [Monitoring Azure SQL Database data reference](monitoring-sql-database-azure-monitor-reference.md#resource-logs).  

For a list of the tables used by Azure Monitor Logs and queryable by Log Analytics, see [Monitoring Azure SQL Database data reference](monitoring-sql-database-azure-monitor-reference.md#azure-monitor-logs-tables).  

### Sample Kusto queries

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you select **Logs** from the Monitoring menu of an Azure SQL database, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current database. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other databases or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](../../azure-monitor/logs/scope.md) for details.

Following are queries that you can use to help you monitor your database.  You may see different options available depending on your purchase model.

Example A: **Log_write_percent** from the past hour

```Kusto
AzureMetrics
| where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.SQL"
| where TimeGenerated >= ago(60min)
| where MetricName in ('log_write_percent')
| parse _ResourceId with * "/microsoft.sql/servers/" Resource
| summarize Log_Maximum_last60mins = max(Maximum), Log_Minimum_last60mins = min(Minimum), Log_Average_last60mins = avg(Average) by Resource, MetricName
```

Example B: **SQL Server wait types** from the past 15 minutes

```Kusto
AzureDiagnostics
| where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.SQL"
| where TimeGenerated >= ago(15min)
| parse _ResourceId with * "/microsoft.sql/servers/" LogicalServerName "/databases/" DatabaseName
| summarize Total_count_15mins = sum(delta_waiting_tasks_count_d) by LogicalServerName, DatabaseName, wait_type_s
```

Example C: **SQL Server deadlocks** from the past 60 minutes

```Kusto
AzureMetrics
| where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.SQL"
| where TimeGenerated >= ago(60min)
| where MetricName in ('deadlock')
| parse _ResourceId with * "/microsoft.sql/servers/" Resource
| summarize Deadlock_max_60Mins = max(Maximum) by Resource, MetricName
```


Example D: **Avg CPU usage** from the past hour

```Kusto
AzureMetrics
| where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.SQL"
| where TimeGenerated >= ago(60min)
| where MetricName in ('cpu_percent')
| parse _ResourceId with * "/microsoft.sql/servers/" Resource
| summarize CPU_Maximum_last60mins = max(Maximum), CPU_Minimum_last60mins = min(Minimum), CPU_Average_last60mins = avg(Average) by Resource, MetricName
```

## Alerts

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](../..//azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric-overview.md), [logs](../../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-unified-log.md), and the [activity log](../../azure-monitor/alerts/activity-log-alerts.md).

If you are creating or running an application in Azure, [Azure Monitor Application Insights](../../azure-monitor/overview.md#application-insights) may offer additional types of alerts.

The following table lists common and recommended alert rules for Azure SQL Database. You may see different options available depending on your purchase model.

| Signal name | Operator | Aggregation type  | Threshold value | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| DTU Percentage | Greater than | Average | 80 | Whenever the average DTU percentage is greater than 80% |
| Log IO percentage | Greater than | Average | 80 | Whenever the average log io percentage is greater than 80% | 
| Deadlocks | Greater than | Count | 1 | Whenever the count of deadlocks is greater than 1 |
| CPU percentage | Greater than | Average | 80 | Whenever the average cpu percentage is greater than 80% | 


## Next steps

- See [Monitoring Azure SQL Database data reference](monitoring-sql-database-azure-monitor-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure SQL Database.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/insights/monitor-azure-resource) for details on monitoring Azure resources.