---
title: "AZFD0011: The FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME setting is required"
titleSuffix: "Azure Functions"
description: "Learn how to troubleshoot the event 'AZFD0011: The FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME setting is required' in Azure Functions."
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 01/24/2024

---

# AZFD0011: The FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME setting is required

This event occurs when a function app doesn't have a value for the `FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME` application setting, which is required.

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Event ID** |AZFD0011|
| **Severity** |Warning|

## Event description

The `FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME` application setting indicates the language or language stack on which the function app runs, such as `python`. For more information on valid values, see the [`FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME`][fwr] reference.

You should always specify a valid `FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME` for your function apps. When you don't have this setting and the Functions host can't determine the correct language or language stack, you might see performance degradations, exceptions, or unexpected behaviors. To ensure that your application operates as intended, you should explicitly set it in all of your existing function apps and deployment scripts.

The value of `FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME` should align with the language stack used to create the deployed application payload. If these do not align, you may see the [`AZFD0013`](./azfd0013.md) event.

## How to resolve the event

In a production application, set [`FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME` to a valid value][fwr] in the [application settings](../../functions-how-to-use-azure-function-app-settings.md#settings). The value should align with the language stack used to create the application payload.

When running locally in Azure Functions Core Tools, also set [`FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME` to a valid value][fwr] in the [local.settings.json file](../../functions-develop-local.md#local-settings-file). The value should align with the language stack used in the local project.

## When to suppress the event

This event shouldn't be suppressed.

[fwr]: ../../functions-app-settings.md#functions_worker_runtime
