---
title: "AZFD0003: Encountered a StorageException while trying to fetch the diagnostic events."
titleSuffix: "Azure Functions"
description: "AZFD0003: Encountered a StorageException while trying to fetch the diagnostic events."
author: soninaren
ms.author: nasoni
ms.topic: troubleshooting
ms.date: 09/03/2022
---

# AZFD0003: Encountered a StorageException while trying to fetch the diagnostic events.

This event occurs when the Azure Storage account connection string value in the `AzureWebJobsStorage` app setting either doesn't have permissions to access Azure Table Storage or generates exceptions when trying to connect to storage.

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Event ID** |AZFD0003|
| **Category** |[Usage]|
| **Severity** |Error|

## Event description
The `AzureWebJobsStorage` app setting is used to store the connection string of the storage account associated with the function app. The Azure Functions runtime uses this connection for core behaviors such as coordinating singleton execution of timer triggers, default app key storage, and storing diagnostic events. 

The connection string set in `AzureWebJobsStorage` must be for an account that has permissions to store and read diagnostic events from Table Storage. The complete set of read, write, delete, add, and create events must be supported.

For more information, see [AzureWebJobsStorage](../../functions-app-settings.md#azurewebjobsstorage).

## How to resolve the event
Make sure that the storage account for the connection string stored in `AzureWebJobsStorage` has permissions to read, write, delete, add and create in Table Storage. Clients should be able to access Storage using this connection string without generating exceptions.

## When to suppress the event
This event should not be suppressed.