---
title: "AZFD0012: A non highly-identifiable secret has been loaded by the application."
titleSuffix: "Azure Functions"
description: "Learn how to troubleshoot the event 'AZFD0012: A non highly identifiable secret has been loaded by the application' in Azure Functions."
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 02/29/2024

---

# AZFD0012: A non highly-identifiable secret has been loaded by the application

This event occurs when a function app has either the `StrictHISModeWarn` or `StrictHISModeEnabled` feature flag enabled in the [`AzureWebJobsFeatureFlags`](../../functions-app-settings.md#azurewebjobsfeatureflags) application setting.

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Event ID** |AZFD0012|
| **Severity** |Warning or Error|

## Event description

The runtime determined that one or more secrets loaded by the host aren't highly identifiable secrets. Highly identifiable secrets are preferred because they include a signature/checksum along with a prefix that enables automated scanning tools to identify the secret as an Azure Functions key value. This identifiability aids in the remediation of inadvertently leaked secrets, such as when they get accidentally checked into a source control repository.

By default, the secret key values generated by Azure Functions are highly identifiable. However, function apps that were created long ago might still have legacy nonidentifiable key values generated before highly identifiable secret generation was enabled.

## How to resolve the event

This event indicates the name and type of the key that is in violation. You should regenerate the key to obtain a new value that is highly identifiable.

## When to suppress the event

This event shouldn't be suppressed.
