articles/synapse-analytics/sql-data-warehouse/fivetran-quickstart.md, before:

---
title: "Quickstart: Fivetran and data warehouse" 
description: Get started with Fivetran and an Azure Synapse Analytics data warehouse.  
services: synapse-analytics
author: mlee3gsd 
manager: craigg
ms.service: synapse-analytics
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.subservice: 
ms.date: 10/12/2018
ms.author: martinle
ms.reviewer: igorstan
ms.custom: seo-lt-2019, azure-synapse
---

# Quickstart: Fivetran with data warehouse 

This quickstart describes how to set up a new Fivetran user to work with an Azure Synapse Analytics data warehouse provisioned with a SQL Pool. The article assumes that you have an existing data warehouse.

## Set up a connection

1. Find the fully qualified server name and database name that you use to connect to your data warehouse.
    
    If you need help finding this information, see [Connect to your data warehouse](sql-data-warehouse-connect-overview.md).

2. In the setup wizard, choose whether to connect your database directly or by using an SSH tunnel.

   If you choose to connect directly to your database, you must create a firewall rule to allow access. This method is the simplest and most secure method.

   If you choose to connect using an SSH tunnel, Fivetran connects to a separate server on your network. The server provides an SSH tunnel to your database. You must use this method if your database is in an inaccessible subnet on a virtual network.

3. Add the IP address **52.0.2.4** to your server-level firewall to allow incoming connections to your data warehouse instance from Fivetran.

   For more information, see [Create a server-level firewall rule](create-data-warehouse-portal.md#create-a-server-level-firewall-rule).

## Set up user credentials

1. Connect to your data warehouse by using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) or the tool that you prefer. Sign in as a server admin user. Then, run the following SQL commands to create a user for Fivetran:

    - In the master database: 
    
      ```sql
      CREATE LOGIN fivetran WITH PASSWORD = '<password>'; 
      ```

    - In the data warehouse database:

      ```sql
      CREATE USER fivetran_user_without_login without login;
      CREATE USER fivetran FOR LOGIN fivetran;
      GRANT IMPERSONATE on USER::fivetran_user_without_login to fivetran;
      ```

2. Grant the Fivetran user the following permissions to your data warehouse:

    ```sql
    GRANT CONTROL to fivetran;
    ```

    CONTROL permission is required to create database-scoped credentials that are used when a user loads files from Azure Blob storage by using PolyBase.

3. Add a suitable resource class to the Fivetran user. The resource class you use depends on the memory that's required to create a columnstore index. For example, integrations with products like Marketo and Salesforce require a higher resource class because of the large number of columns and the larger volume of data the products use. A higher resource class requires more memory to create columnstore indexes.

    We recommend that you use static resource classes. You can start with the `staticrc20` resource class. The `staticrc20` resource class allocates 200 MB for each user, regardless of the performance level you use. If columnstore indexing fails at the initial resource class level, increase the resource class.

    ```sql
    EXEC sp_addrolemember '<resource_class_name>', 'fivetran';
    ```

    For more information, read about [memory and concurrency limits](memory-concurrency-limits.md) and [resource classes](sql-data-warehouse-memory-optimizations-for-columnstore-compression.md#ways-to-allocate-more-memory).


## Sign in to Fivetran

To sign in to Fivetran, enter the credentials that you use to access your data warehouse: 

* Host (your server name).
* Port.
* Database.
* User (the user name should be **fivetran\@_server_name_** where *server_name* is part of your Azure host URI: **_server\_name_.database.windows.net**).
* Password.

Commit message:

Clarify where you're entering password
These instructions are kind of misleading. You don't use your synapse user/password to log into Fivetran, you enter it into the connect form after you've logged into Fivetran using our own mechanism.

articles/synapse-analytics/sql-data-warehouse/fivetran-quickstart.md, after:

---
title: "Quickstart: Fivetran and data warehouse" 
description: Get started with Fivetran and an Azure Synapse Analytics data warehouse.  
services: synapse-analytics
author: mlee3gsd 
manager: craigg
ms.service: synapse-analytics
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.subservice: 
ms.date: 10/12/2018
ms.author: martinle
ms.reviewer: igorstan
ms.custom: seo-lt-2019, azure-synapse
---

# Quickstart: Fivetran with data warehouse 

This quickstart describes how to set up a new Fivetran user to work with an Azure Synapse Analytics data warehouse provisioned with a SQL Pool. The article assumes that you have an existing data warehouse.

## Set up a connection

1. Find the fully qualified server name and database name that you use to connect to your data warehouse.
    
    If you need help finding this information, see [Connect to your data warehouse](sql-data-warehouse-connect-overview.md).

2. In the setup wizard, choose whether to connect your database directly or by using an SSH tunnel.

   If you choose to connect directly to your database, you must create a firewall rule to allow access. This method is the simplest and most secure method.

   If you choose to connect using an SSH tunnel, Fivetran connects to a separate server on your network. The server provides an SSH tunnel to your database. You must use this method if your database is in an inaccessible subnet on a virtual network.

3. Add the IP address **52.0.2.4** to your server-level firewall to allow incoming connections to your data warehouse instance from Fivetran.

   For more information, see [Create a server-level firewall rule](create-data-warehouse-portal.md#create-a-server-level-firewall-rule).

## Set up user credentials

1. Connect to your data warehouse by using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) or the tool that you prefer. Sign in as a server admin user. Then, run the following SQL commands to create a user for Fivetran:

    - In the master database: 
    
      ```sql
      CREATE LOGIN fivetran WITH PASSWORD = '<password>'; 
      ```

    - In the data warehouse database:

      ```sql
      CREATE USER fivetran_user_without_login without login;
      CREATE USER fivetran FOR LOGIN fivetran;
      GRANT IMPERSONATE on USER::fivetran_user_without_login to fivetran;
      ```

2. Grant the Fivetran user the following permissions to your data warehouse:

    ```sql
    GRANT CONTROL to fivetran;
    ```

    CONTROL permission is required to create database-scoped credentials that are used when a user loads files from Azure Blob storage by using PolyBase.

3. Add a suitable resource class to the Fivetran user. The resource class you use depends on the memory that's required to create a columnstore index. For example, integrations with products like Marketo and Salesforce require a higher resource class because of the large number of columns and the larger volume of data the products use. A higher resource class requires more memory to create columnstore indexes.

    We recommend that you use static resource classes. You can start with the `staticrc20` resource class. The `staticrc20` resource class allocates 200 MB for each user, regardless of the performance level you use. If columnstore indexing fails at the initial resource class level, increase the resource class.

    ```sql
    EXEC sp_addrolemember '<resource_class_name>', 'fivetran';
    ```

    For more information, read about [memory and concurrency limits](memory-concurrency-limits.md) and [resource classes](sql-data-warehouse-memory-optimizations-for-columnstore-compression.md#ways-to-allocate-more-memory).


## Connect from Fivetran

To connect to your data warehouse from your Fivetran account, enter the credentials that you use to access your data warehouse: 

* Host (your server name).
* Port.
* Database.
* User (the user name should be **fivetran\@_server_name_** where *server_name* is part of your Azure host URI: **_server\_name_.database.windows.net**).
* Password.
