---
author: Juliako
ms.service: azure-video-analyzer
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/07/2021
ms.author: juliako
---

As part of the prerequisites, you downloaded the sample code to a folder. Follow these steps to examine and edit the sample files.

1. In Visual Studio Code, go to src/edge. You see your .env file and a few deployment template files.
The deployment template refers to the deployment manifest for the edge device. It includes some placeholder values. The .env file includes the values for those variables.
1. Go to the src/cloud-to-device-console-app folder. Here you see your appsettings.json file and a few other files:

    * c2d-console-app.csproj - The project file for Visual Studio Code.
    * operations.json - A list of the operations that you want the program to run.
    * main.py - The sample program code. This code:
        
        * Loads the app settings.
        * Invokes direct methods that the Azure Video Analyzer module exposes. 
        * Pauses so that you can examine the program's output in the TERMINAL window and examine the events that were generated by the module in the OUTPUT window.
        * Invokes direct methods to clean up resources.
1. Edit the **operations.json** file:

    * Change the link to the pipelineTopology<br/>`"pipelineTopologyUrl" : "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/video-analyzer/main/pipelines/live/topologies/motion-with-httpExtension/topology.json"`
    * Under livePipelineSet, edit the name of the pipelineTopology to match the value in the preceding link:<br/>`"pipelineTopologyName" : "EVROnMotionPlusHttpExtension"`
    * Under PipelineTopologyDelete, edit the name:<br/>`"name": "EVROnMotionPlusHttpExtension"`


