---
title: 'Azure Front Door: DDoS protection'
description: This page provides information about how Azure Front Door Standard/Premium helps to protect against DDoS attacks
services: frontdoor
documentationcenter: ''
author: duongau
ms.service: frontdoor
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/18/2021
ms.author: jodowns
---

# DDoS protection on Azure Front Door Standard/Premium (Preview)

> [!Note]
> This documentation is for Azure Front Door Standard/Premium (Preview). Looking for information on Azure Front Door? View [here](../front-door-overview.md).

Azure Front Door has several features and characteristics that can help to prevent distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. These features can prevent attackers from reaching your application and affecting your application's availability and performance.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Azure Front Door Standard/Premium (Preview) is currently in public preview.
> This preview version is provided without a service level agreement, and it's not recommended for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities.
> For more information, see [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).

## Integration with Azure DDoS Protection Basic

Front Door is protected by Azure DDoS Protection Basic. The feature is integrated into the Front Door platform by default and at no extra cost. The full scale and capacity of Front Door's globally deployed network provides defense against common network layer attacks through always-on traffic monitoring and real-time mitigation. Basic DDoS protection also defends against the most common, frequently occurring layer 7 DNS query floods and layer 3 and 4 volumetric attacks that target public endpoints. This service also has a proven track record in protecting Microsoft's enterprise and consumer services from large-scale attacks. For more information, see [Azure DDoS Protection](../../security/fundamentals/ddos-best-practices.md).

## Protocol blocking

Front Door only accepts traffic on the HTTP and HTTPS protocols, and will only process valid requests with a known `Host` header. This behavior helps to mitigate some common DDoS attack types including volumetric attacks that get spread across a range of protocols and ports, DNS amplification attacks, and TCP poisoning attacks.

## Capacity absorption

Front Door is a massively scaled, globally distributed service. We have many customers, including Microsoft's own large-scale cloud products, that receive hundreds of thousands of requests each second. Front Door is located at the edge of Azure's network, absorbing, and geographically isolating large volume attacks. This can prevent malicious traffic from going any further than the edge of the Azure network.

## Caching

[Front Door's caching capabilities](concept-caching.md) can be used to protect backends from large traffic volumes generated by an attack. Cached resources will be returned from the Front Door edge nodes so they don't get forwarded to your backend. Even short cache expiry times (seconds or minutes) on dynamic responses can greatly reduce load on backend services. For more information about caching concepts and patterns, see [Caching considerations](/azure/architecture/best-practices/caching) and [Cache-aside pattern](/azure/architecture/patterns/cache-aside).

## Web Application Firewall (WAF)

[Front Door's Web Application Firewall (WAF)](../../web-application-firewall/afds/afds-overview.md) can be used to mitigate many different types of attacks:

* Using the managed rule set provides protection against many common attacks.
* Traffic from outside a defined geographic region, or within a defined region, can be blocked or redirected to a static webpage. For more information, see [Geo-filtering](../../web-application-firewall/afds/waf-front-door-geo-filtering.md).
* IP addresses and ranges that you identify as malicious can be blocked.
* Rate limiting can be applied to prevent IP addresses from calling your service too frequently.
* You can create [custom WAF rules](../../web-application-firewall/afds/waf-front-door-custom-rules.md) to automatically block and rate limit HTTP or HTTPS attacks that have known signatures.

## For further protection

If you require further protection, then you can enable [Azure DDoS Protection Standard](../../security/fundamentals/ddos-best-practices.md#ddos-protection-standard) on the VNet where your back-ends are deployed. DDoS Protection Standard customers receive more benefits including:

* Cost protection
* SLA guarantee
* Access to experts from the DDoS Rapid Response Team for immediate help during an attack.

## Next steps

Learn how to [create a Front Door Standard/Premium](create-front-door-portal.md).
