---
title: Customize alert details in Microsoft Sentinel | Microsoft Docs
description: Customize how alerts are named and described, along with their severity and assigned tactics, based on the alerts' content.
author: yelevin
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 11/23/2022
ms.author: yelevin
---

# Customize alert details in Microsoft Sentinel 

This article explains how to override the default properties of alerts with content from the underlying query results.

In the process of creating a scheduled analytics rule, as the first step you define a name and description for the rule, and you assign it a severity and MITRE ATT&CK tactics. All alerts generated by a given rule - and all incidents created as a result - will inherit the name, description, severity, and tactics defined in the rule, without regard to the particular content of a specific instance of the alert.

With the **alert details** feature, you can override these and other default properties of alerts in two ways:

- Create custom, variable names and descriptions for your alerts. You can select fields in your alert's query output whose contents can be included in the name or description of each instance of the alert. If the selected field has no value in a given instance, the alert details for that instance will revert to the defaults specified in the first page of the wizard.

- Customize the severity, tactics, and other properties of a given instance of an alert (see the full list of properties below) with the values of any relevant fields from the query output. If the selected fields are empty or have values that don't match the field data type, the respective alert properties will revert to their defaults (for tactics and severity, those specified in the first page of the wizard).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Some alert details' customizability (see those so indicated below) are currently in **PREVIEW**. See the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/) for additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.


Follow the procedure detailed below to use the alert details feature. These steps are part of the [analytics rule creation wizard](detect-threats-custom.md), but they're addressed here independently to address the scenario of adding or changing alert details in an existing analytics rule.

## How to customize alert details

1. From the Microsoft Sentinel navigation menu, select **Analytics**.

1. Select a scheduled query rule and select **Edit**. Or create a new rule by selecting **Create > Scheduled query rule** at the top of the screen.

1. Select the **Set rule logic** tab.

1. In the **Alert enrichment** section, expand **Alert details**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/customize-alert-details/alert-enrichment.png" alt-text="Customize alert details":::

1. In the now-expanded **Alert details** section, add free text that includes properties corresponding to the details you want to display in the alert:

    1. In the **Alert Name Format** field, enter the text you want to appear as the name of the alert (the alert text), and include, in double curly brackets, any query output fields you want to be part of the alert text.

        Example: `Alert from {{ProviderName}}: {{AccountName}} failed to sign in to computer {{ComputerName}}.`

    1. Do the same with the **Alert Description Format** field.

        > [!NOTE]
        > You are currently limited to **three parameters each** in the **Alert Name Format** and **Alert Description Format** fields.

    1. To override other default properties, select an alert property from the **Alert property** drop-down list. Then select the field from the query results, whose contents you want to populate the alert property, from the **Value** drop-down list.

    1. To override more default properties, select **+ Add new** and repeat the previous step.

        The following alert properties can be overridden:
        - AlertName
        - Description
        - AlertSeverity
        - Tactics
        - Techniques (Preview)
        - AlertLink (Preview)
        - ConfidenceLevel (Preview)
        - ConfidenceScore (Preview)
        - ExtendedLinks (Preview)
        - ProductComponentName (Preview)
        - ProductName (Preview)
        - ProviderName (Preview)
        - RemediationSteps (Preview)
    
    If you change your mind, or if you made a mistake, you can remove an alert detail by clicking the trash can icon next to the **Alert property/Value** pair, or delete the free text from the **Alert Name/Description Format** fields.

1. When you have finished customizing your alert details, if you're now creating the rule, continue to the next tab in the wizard. If you're editing an existing rule, select the **Review and create** tab. Once the rule validation is successful, select **Save**.

## Next steps

In this document, you learned how to customize alert details in Microsoft Sentinel analytics rules. To learn more about Microsoft Sentinel, see the following articles:

- Get the complete picture on [scheduled query analytics rules](detect-threats-custom.md).
- Learn more about [entities in Microsoft Sentinel](entities.md).
