---
title: Navigate and triage incidents in Microsoft Sentinel
description: This article takes you through the process of finding and triaging incidents using Microsoft Sentinel's incident investigation and management platform. The platform helps you decide quickly how to navigate and triage your incidents more quickly, effectively, and efficiently, leading to a reduction in your mean time to resolve (MTTR).
author: yelevin
ms.author: yelevin
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/13/2023
---

# Navigate and triage incidents in Microsoft Sentinel

Microsoft Sentinel gives you a complete, full-featured case management platform for investigating security incidents. The **Incident details** page is your central location from which to run your investigation, collecting all the relevant information and all the applicable tools and tasks in one screen.

This article is part of a series dedicated to helping you navigate and investigate your incidents more quickly, effectively, and efficiently, and reducing your mean time to resolve (MTTR).

Here is the full list of articles in the series:
1. [Introduction to incident investigation in Microsoft Sentinel](incident-investigation.md)
1. Navigate and triage incidents in Microsoft Sentinel (You are here)
1. [Determine your workflow with incident tasks](work-with-tasks.md)
1. [Open an in-depth investigation of an incident - meet the incident details page](investigate-in-depth.md)
1. Find and study similar incidents to understand context and learn lessons
1. Get insights into the entities in your incident and their activities
1. [Focus your investigation by relating alerts to your incident](relate-alerts-to-incidents.md)
1. Audit your investigations

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> The new incident experience is currently in **PREVIEW**. See the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/) for additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
>
> Some of the individual functionalities mentioned below are also in **PREVIEW**. They will be so indicated.

See instructions for the [previous version of incident investigation](investigate-cases.md).

Incidents are your case files that contain an aggregation of all the relevant evidence for specific investigations. Each incident is created (or added to) based on pieces of evidence ([alerts](detect-threats-built-in.md)) that were either generated by analytics rules or imported from third-party security products that produce their own alerts. Incidents inherit the [entities](entities.md) contained in the alerts, as well as the alerts' properties, such as severity, status, and MITRE ATT&CK tactics and techniques.

## Prerequisites

- The [**Microsoft Sentinel Responder**](../role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.md#microsoft-sentinel-responder) role assignment is required to investigate incidents.

    Learn more about [roles in Microsoft Sentinel](roles.md).

- If you have a guest user that needs to assign incidents, the user must be assigned the [Directory Reader](../active-directory/roles/permissions-reference.md#directory-readers) role in your Azure AD tenant. Regular (non-guest) users have this role assigned by default.

## The Incidents page

1. From the Microsoft Sentinel navigation menu, under **Threat management**, select **Incidents**. 

    The **Incidents** page gives you basic information about all of your open incidents.

    - Across the top of the screen you have the counts of open incidents, whether new or active, and the counts of open incidents by severity. You also have the **banner** with actions you can take outside of a specific incident - either on the grid as a whole, or on multiple selected incidents.

    - In the central pane, you have the **incident grid**, a list of incidents as filtered by the filtering controls at the top of the list, and a search bar to find specific incidents.

    - On the right side, you have a **details pane** that shows important information about the incident highlighted in the central list, along with buttons for taking certain specific actions with regard to that incident.

    :::image type="content" source="media/investigate-incidents/incident-grid.png" alt-text="Screenshot of view of incident severity." lightbox="media/investigate-incidents/incident-grid.png":::

1. Your Security Operations team may have [**automation rules**](automate-incident-handling-with-automation-rules.md#automatic-assignment-of-incidents) in place to perform basic triage on new incidents and assign them to the proper personnel.

    In that case, filter the incident list by **Owner** to limit the list to the incidents assigned to you or to your team. This filtered set represents your personal workload.

    Otherwise, you can perform basic triage yourself. You can start by filtering the list of incidents by available filtering criteria, whether status, severity, or product name. For more information, see [Search for incidents](#search-for-incidents).

1. Triage a specific incident and take some actions on it immediately, right from the **details pane** on the **Incidents** page, without having to enter the incident’s full details page.

    - **Investigate Microsoft 365 Defender incidents in Microsoft 365 Defender:** Follow the [**Investigate in Microsoft 365 Defender**](microsoft-365-defender-sentinel-integration.md) link to pivot to the parallel incident in the Defender portal. Any changes you make to the incident in Microsoft 365 Defender will be synchronized to the same incident in Microsoft Sentinel.

    - **Open the list of assigned tasks:** Incidents for which any tasks have been assigned will display a count of completed and total tasks and a **View full details** link. Follow the link to open the [**Incident tasks**](incident-tasks.md) panel to see the list of tasks for this incident.

    - **Assign ownership of the incident** to a user or group by selecting from the **Owner** drop-down list.

        :::image type="content" source="media/investigate-incidents/assign-incident-to-user.png" alt-text="Screenshot of assigning incident to user.":::

        Recently selected users and groups will appear at the top of the pictured drop-down list.

    - **Update the incident’s status** (for example, from **New** to **Active** or **Closed**) by selecting from the **Status** drop-down list. When closing an incident, you’ll be required to specify a reason. [See below for instructions](#closing-an-incident).

    - **Change the incident’s severity** by selecting from the **Severity** drop-down list.

    - **Add tags** to categorize your incidents. You may need to scroll down to the bottom of the details pane to see where to add tags.

    - **Add comments** to log your actions, ideas, questions, and more. You may need to scroll down to the bottom of the details pane to see where to add comments.

1. If the information in the **details pane** is sufficient to prompt further remediation or mitigation actions, select the **Actions** button at the bottom of the **details pane** to do one of the following:

    - **Investigate:** use the [graphical investigation tool](#use-the-investigation-graph-to-deep-dive) to discover relationships between alerts, entities, and activities, both within this incident and across other incidents.
    - **Run playbook (Preview):** run a [playbook](automate-responses-with-playbooks.md#run-a-playbook-manually) on this incident to take particular [enrichment, collaboration, or response actions](automate-responses-with-playbooks.md#use-cases-for-playbooks) such as your SOC engineers may have made available.
    - **Create automation rule:** create an [automation rule](automate-incident-handling-with-automation-rules.md#common-use-cases-and-scenarios) that will run only on incidents like this one (generated by the same analytics rule) in the future, in order to reduce your future workload or to account for a temporary change in requirements (such as for a penetration test).
    - **Create team (Preview):** create a team in Microsoft Teams to collaborate with other individuals or teams across departments on handling the incident.

    :::image type="content" source="media/investigate-incidents/incident-actions.png" alt-text="Screenshot of menu of actions that can be performed on an incident from the details pane.":::

1. If more information about the incident is needed, select **View full details** in the details pane to open and see the incident's details in their entirety, including the alerts and entities in the incident, a list of similar incidents, and selected top insights.

## Closing an incident

Once you have resolved a particular incident (for example, when your investigation has reached its conclusion), you should set the incident’s status to **Closed**. When you do so, you will be asked to classify the incident by specifying the reason you are closing it. This step is mandatory. Click **Select classification** and choose one of the following from the drop-down list:

- True Positive - suspicious activity
- Benign Positive - suspicious but expected
- False Positive - incorrect alert logic
- False Positive - incorrect data
- Undetermined

:::image type="content" source="media/investigate-incidents/closing-reasons-dropdown.png" alt-text="Screenshot that highlights the classifications available in the Select classification list.":::

For more information about false positives and benign positives, see [Handle false positives in Microsoft Sentinel](false-positives.md).

After choosing the appropriate classification, add some descriptive text in the **Comment** field. This will be useful in the event you need to refer back to this incident. Click **Apply** when you’re done, and the incident will be closed.

:::image type="content" source="media/investigate-incidents/closing-reasons-comment-apply.png" alt-text="{alt-text}":::

## Search for incidents

To find a specific incident quickly, enter a search string in the search box above the incidents grid and press **Enter** to modify the list of incidents shown accordingly. If your incident isn't included in the results, you may want to narrow your search by using **Advanced search** options.

To modify the search parameters, select the **Search** button and then select the parameters where you want to run your search.

For example:

:::image type="content" source="media/investigate-incidents/advanced-search.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the incident search box and button to select basic and/or advanced search options.":::

By default, incident searches run across the **Incident ID**, **Title**, **Tags**, **Owner**, and **Product name** values only. In the search pane, scroll down the list to select one or more other parameters to search, and select **Apply** to update the search parameters. Select **Set to default** reset the selected parameters to the default option.


> [!NOTE]
> Searches in the **Owner** field support both names and email addresses.
>

Using advanced search options changes the search behavior as follows:

| Search behavior  | Description  |
|---------|---------|
| **Search button color**     | The color of the search button changes, depending on the types of parameters currently being used in the search. <ul><li>As long as only the default parameters are selected, the button is grey. <li>As soon as different parameters are selected, such as advanced search parameters, the button turns blue.         |
| **Auto-refresh**     | Using advanced search parameters prevents you from selecting to automatically refresh your results.        |
| **Entity parameters**     | All entity parameters are supported for advanced searches. When searching in any entity parameter, the search runs in all entity parameters.         |
| **Search strings**     | Searching for a string of words includes all of the words in the search query. Search strings are case sensitive.     |
| **Cross workspace support**     | Advanced searches are not supported for cross-workspace views.     |
| **Number of search results displayed** | When you're using advanced search parameters, only 50 results are shown at a time. |


> [!TIP]
>  If you're unable to find the incident you're looking for, remove search parameters to expand your search. If your search results in too many items, add more filters to narrow down your results.
>

## Next steps

See the [next article in this series](link) to follow a typical investigation path, learning in the process about all the information you'll see there, and all the actions you can take.
