---
title: Tutorial - Detect Log4j vulnerability exploits with Microsoft Sentinel
description: In this tutorial, learn how to detect exploits of the Apache Log4j vulnerability in any of your susceptible systems with Microsoft Sentinel analytics rules, taking advantage of alert enrichment capabilities to surface as much information as possible to benefit an investigation.
author: yelevin
ms.author: yelevin
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 01/08/2023
---

# Tutorial: Detect Log4j vulnerability exploits in your systems and produce enriched alerts

As a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) service, Microsoft Sentinel is responsible for detecting security threats to your organization. It does this by analyzing the massive volumes of data generated by all of your systems' logs.

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to set up a Microsoft Sentinel analytics rule from a template to search for exploits of the Apache Log4j vulnerability across your environment. The rule will frame user accounts and IP addresses found in your logs as trackable entities, surface notable pieces of information in the alerts generated by the rules, and package alerts as incidents to be investigated.

When you complete this tutorial, you'll be able to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> - Create an analytics rule from a template
> - Customize a rule's query and settings
> - Configure the three types of alert enrichment
> - Choose automated threat responses for your rules


## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, make sure you have:

- An Azure subscription. Create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F) if you don't already have one.

- A Log Analytics workspace with the Microsoft Sentinel solution deployed on it and data being ingested into it.

- An Azure user with the [**Microsoft Sentinel Contributor**](../role-based-access-control/built-in-roles.md#microsoft-sentinel-contributor) role assigned on the Log Analytics workspace where Microsoft Sentinel is deployed. 

- XYZ data connectors connected (and being used)

## Sign in to the Azure portal and Microsoft Sentinel

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

1. From the Search bar, search for and select **Microsoft Sentinel**.

1. Search for and select your workspace from the list of available Microsoft Sentinel workspaces.

1. On the **Microsoft Sentinel | Overview** page, select **Analytics** from the navigation menu, under **Configuration**.

## Create a Scheduled analytics rule from a template

1. From the **Analytics** page, select the **Rule templates** tab.

1. In the search field at the top of the list of rule templates, enter **log4j**.

1. From the filtered list of templates, select **Log4j vulnerability exploit aka Log4Shell IP IOC**. From the details pane, select **Create rule**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-log4j-detection/find-template-create-rule.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to search for and locate template and create analytics rule." lightbox="media/tutorial-log4j-detection/find-template-create-rule.png":::

    The **Analytics rule wizard** will open.

1. In the **General** tab, leave the fields on this page as they are. We will add customization to the alert name, description, and other properties at a later stage.

    If you don’t want the rule to run immediately, select **Disabled**, and the rule will be added to your **Active rules** tab and you can enable it from there when you need it.

1. Select **Next : Set rule logic**.
   :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-log4j-detection/general-tab.png" alt-text="Start creating a custom analytics rule":::

## Review rule query logic and configuration of settings

In the **Set rule logic** tab, review the query as it appears under the **Rule query** heading. To see more of the query text at one time, select the diagonal double-arrow icon at the upper right corner of the query window to expand the window to a larger size.

   :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-log4j-detection/set-rule-logic-tab.png" alt-text="Configure query rule logic and settings" lightbox="media/tutorial-detect-threats-custom/set-rule-logic-tab-all-1-new.png":::

## Enrich alerts with entities and other details

1. Under **Alert enrichment**, keep the **Entity mapping** settings as they are. Note the three mapped entities.

    :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-log4j-detection/entity-mappings.png" alt-text="Screenshot of existing entity mapping settings.":::

1. In the **Custom details** section, let's add the timestamp of each occurrence to the alert, so you can see it right in the alert details, without having to drill down.
    1. Type **timestamp** in the **Key** field. This will be the property name in the alert.
    1. Select **timestamp** from the **Value** drop-down list.

1. In the **Alert details** section, let's customize the alert name so that the timestamp of each occurrence appears in the alert title.

    In the **Alert name format** field, enter **Log4j vulnerability exploit aka Log4Shell IP IOC at {{timestamp}}**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-log4j-detection/custom-details.png" alt-text="Screenshot of custom details and alert details configurations.":::

### Query scheduling and alert threshold

- In the **Query scheduling** section, set the following parameters:

   :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-detect-threats-custom/set-rule-logic-tab-2.png" alt-text="Set query schedule and event grouping" lightbox="media/tutorial-detect-threats-custom/set-rule-logic-tab-all-2-new.png":::

  - Set **Run query every** to control how often the query is run - as frequently as every 5 minutes or as infrequently as once every 14 days.

  - Set **Lookup data from the last** to determine the time period of the data covered by the query - for example, it can query the past 10 minutes of data, or the past 6 hours of data. The maximum is 14 days.

    > [!NOTE]
    > **Query intervals and lookback period**
    >
    >  These two settings are independent of each other, up to a point. You can run a query at a short interval covering a time period longer than the interval (in effect having overlapping queries), but you cannot run a query at an interval that exceeds the coverage period, otherwise you will have gaps in the overall query coverage.
    >
    > **Ingestion delay**
    >
    > To account for **latency** that may occur between an event's generation at the source and its ingestion into Microsoft Sentinel, and to ensure complete coverage without data duplication, Microsoft Sentinel runs scheduled analytics rules on a **five-minute delay** from their scheduled time.
    >
    > For more information, see [Handle ingestion delay in scheduled analytics rules](ingestion-delay.md).

- Use the **Alert threshold** section to define the sensitivity level of the rule. For example, set **Generate alert when number of query results** to **Is greater than** and enter the number 1000 if you want the rule to generate an alert only if the query returns more than 1000 results each time it runs. This is a required field, so if you don’t want to set a threshold – that is, if you want your alert to register every event – enter 0 in the number field.

### Results simulation

In the **Results simulation** area, in the right side of the wizard, select **Test with current data** and Microsoft Sentinel will show you a graph of the results (log events) the query would have generated over the last 50 times it would have run, according to the currently defined schedule. If you modify the query, select **Test with current data** again to update the graph. The graph shows the number of results over the defined time period, which is determined by the settings in the **Query scheduling** section.

Here's what the results simulation might look like for the query in the screenshot above. The left side is the default view, and the right side is what you see when you hover over a point in time on the graph.

:::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-detect-threats-custom/results-simulation.png" alt-text="Results simulation screenshots":::

If you see that your query would trigger too many or too frequent alerts, you can experiment with the settings in the **Query scheduling** and **Alert threshold** [sections](#query-scheduling-and-alert-threshold) and select **Test with current data** again.

### Event grouping and rule suppression

- Under **Event grouping**, choose one of two ways to handle the grouping of **events** into **alerts**:

  - **Group all events into a single alert** (the default setting). The rule generates a single alert every time it runs, as long as the query returns more results than the specified **alert threshold** above. The alert includes a summary of all the events returned in the results.

  - **Trigger an alert for each event**. The rule generates a unique alert for each event returned by the query. This is useful if you want events to be displayed individually, or if you want to group them by certain parameters - by user, hostname, or something else. You can define these parameters in the query.

    Currently the number of alerts a rule can generate is capped at 150. If in a particular rule, **Event grouping** is set to **Trigger an alert for each event**, and the rule's query returns more than 150 events, each of the first 149 events will generate a unique alert, and the 150th alert will summarize the entire set of returned events. In other words, the 150th alert is what would have been generated under the **Group all events into a single alert** option.

    If you choose this option, Microsoft Sentinel will add a new field, **OriginalQuery**, to the results of the query. Here is a comparison of the existing **Query** field and the new field:

    | Field name | Contains | Running the query in this field<br>results in... |
    | - | :-: | :-: |
    | **Query** | The compressed record of the event that generated this instance of the alert | The event that generated this instance of the alert |
    | **OriginalQuery** | The original query as written in the analytics&nbsp;rule | The most recent event in the timeframe in which the query runs, that fits the parameters defined by the query |

    In other words, the **OriginalQuery** field behaves like the **Query** field usually behaves. The result of this extra field is that the problem described by the first item in the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section below has been solved.

  > [!NOTE]
  > What's the difference between **events** and **alerts**?
  >
  > - An **event** is a description of a single occurrence of an action. For example, a single entry in a log file could count as an event. In this context an event refers to a single result returned by a query in an analytics rule.
  >
  > - An **alert** is a collection of events that, taken together, are significant from a security standpoint. An alert could contain a single event if the event had significant security implications - an administrative login from a foreign country outside of office hours, for example.
  >
  > - By the way, what are **incidents**? Microsoft Sentinel's internal logic creates **incidents** from **alerts** or groups of alerts. The incidents queue is the focal point of SOC analysts' work - triage, investigation and remediation.
  >
  > Microsoft Sentinel ingests raw events from some data sources, and already-processed alerts from others. It is important to note which one you're dealing with at any time.

- In the **Suppression** section, you can turn the **Stop running query after alert is generated** setting **On** if, once you get an alert, you want to suspend the operation of this rule for a period of time exceeding the query interval. If you turn this on, you must set **Stop running query for** to the amount of time the query should stop running, up to 24 hours.

## Configure the incident creation settings

In the **Incident Settings** tab, you can choose whether and how Microsoft Sentinel turns alerts into actionable incidents. If this tab is left alone, Microsoft Sentinel will create a single, separate incident from each and every alert. You can choose to have no incidents created, or to group several alerts into a single incident, by changing the settings in this tab.

For example:

:::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-detect-threats-custom/incident-settings-tab.png" alt-text="Define the incident creation and alert grouping settings":::

### Incident settings

In the **Incident settings** section, **Create incidents from alerts triggered by this analytics rule** is set by default to **Enabled**, meaning that Microsoft Sentinel will create a single, separate incident from each and every alert triggered by the rule.

- If you don’t want this rule to result in the creation of any incidents (for example, if this rule is just to collect information for subsequent analysis), set this to **Disabled**.

- If you want a single incident to be created from a group of alerts, instead of one for every single alert, see the next section.

### Alert grouping

In the **Alert grouping** section, if you want a single incident to be generated from a group of up to 150 similar or recurring alerts (see note), set **Group related alerts, triggered by this analytics rule, into incidents** to **Enabled**, and set the following parameters.

- **Limit the group to alerts created within the selected time frame**: Determine the time frame within which the similar or recurring alerts will be grouped together. All of the corresponding alerts within this time frame will collectively generate an incident or a set of incidents (depending on the grouping settings below). Alerts outside this time frame will generate a separate incident or set of incidents.

- **Group alerts triggered by this analytics rule into a single incident by**: Choose the basis on which alerts will be grouped together:

    | Option | Description |
    | ------- | ---------- |
    | **Group alerts into a single incident if all the entities match** | Alerts are grouped together if they share identical values for each of the mapped entities (defined in the [Set rule logic](#define-the-rule-query-logic-and-configure-settings) tab above). This is the recommended setting. |
    | **Group all alerts triggered by this rule into a single incident** | All the alerts generated by this rule are grouped together even if they share no identical values. |
    | **Group alerts into a single incident if the selected entities and details match** | Alerts are grouped together if they share identical values for all of the mapped entities, alert details, and custom details selected from the respective drop-down lists.<br><br>You might want to use this setting if, for example, you want to create separate incidents based on the source or target IP addresses, or if you want to group alerts that match a specific entity and severity.<br><br>**Note**: When you select this option, you must have at least one entity type or field selected for the rule. Otherwise, the rule validation will fail and the rule won't be created. |
    |

- **Re-open closed matching incidents**: If an incident has been resolved and closed, and later on another alert is generated that should belong to that incident, set this setting to **Enabled** if you want the closed incident re-opened, and leave as **Disabled** if you want the alert to create a new incident.

    > [!NOTE]
    > **Up to 150 alerts** can be grouped into a single incident. If more than 150 alerts are generated by a rule that groups them into a single incident, a new incident will be generated with the same incident details as the original, and the excess alerts will be grouped into the new incident.

## Set automated responses and create the rule

1. In the **Automated responses** tab, you can set automation based on the alert or alerts generated by this analytics rule, or based on the incident created by the alerts.

    - For alert-based automation, select from the drop-down list under **Alert automation** any playbooks you want to run automatically when an alert is generated.

    - For incident-based automation, the grid displayed under **Incident automation** shows the automation rules that already apply to this analytics rule (by virtue of it meeting the conditions defined in those rules). You can edit any of these by selecting the ellipsis at the end of each row. Or, you can [create a new automation rule](create-manage-use-automation-rules.md).
    
        You can call playbooks (those based on the **incident trigger**) from these automation rules, as well as automate triage, assignment, and closing.

    - For more information and instructions on creating playbooks and automation rules, see [Automate threat responses](tutorial-respond-threats-playbook.md#automate-threat-responses).

    - For more information about when to use the **alert trigger** or the **incident trigger**, see [Use triggers and actions in Microsoft Sentinel playbooks](playbook-triggers-actions.md#microsoft-sentinel-triggers-summary).

    :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-detect-threats-custom/automated-response-tab.png" alt-text="Define the automated response settings":::

1. Select **Review and create** to review all the settings for your new alert rule. When the "Validation passed" message appears, select **Create** to initialize your alert rule.

    :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-detect-threats-custom/review-and-create-tab.png" alt-text="Review all settings and create the rule":::

## View the rule and its output
  
- You can find your newly created custom rule (of type "Scheduled") in the table under the **Active rules** tab on the main **Analytics** screen. From this list you can enable, disable, or delete each rule.

- To view the results of the alert rules you create, go to the **Incidents** page, where you can triage, [investigate incidents](investigate-cases.md), and remediate the threats.

- You can update the rule query to exclude false positives. For more information, see [Handle false positives in Microsoft Sentinel](false-positives.md).

> [!NOTE]
> Alerts generated in Microsoft Sentinel are available through [Microsoft Graph Security](/graph/security-concept-overview). For more information, see the [Microsoft Graph Security alerts documentation](/graph/api/resources/security-api-overview).

## Export the rule to an ARM template

If you want to package your rule to be managed and deployed as code, you can easily [export the rule to an Azure Resource Manager (ARM) template](import-export-analytics-rules.md). You can also import rules from template files in order to view and edit them in the user interface.

## Troubleshooting

### Issue: No events appear in query results

When **event grouping** is set to **trigger an alert for each event**, query results viewed at a later time may appear to be missing, or different than expected.  For example, you might view a query's results at a later time when you've pivoted back to the results from a related incident.

- Results are automatically saved with the alerts. However, if the results are too large, no results are saved, and then no data will appear when viewing the query results again.
- In cases where there is [ingestion delay](ingestion-delay.md), or the query is not deterministic due to aggregation, the alert's result might be different than the result shown by running the query manually.

> [!NOTE]
> This issue has been solved by the addition of a new field, **OriginalQuery**, to the results when this event grouping option is selected. See the [description](#event-grouping-and-rule-suppression) above.

### Issue: A scheduled rule failed to execute, or appears with AUTO DISABLED added to the name

It's a rare occurrence that a scheduled query rule fails to run, but it can happen. Microsoft Sentinel classifies failures up front as either transient or permanent, based on the specific type of the failure and the circumstances that led to it.

#### Transient failure

A transient failure occurs due to a circumstance which is temporary and will soon return to normal, at which point the rule execution will succeed. Some examples of failures that Microsoft Sentinel classifies as transient are:

- A rule query takes too long to run and times out.
- Connectivity issues between data sources and Log Analytics, or between Log Analytics and Microsoft Sentinel.
- Any other new and unknown failure is considered transient.

In the event of a transient failure, Microsoft Sentinel continues trying to execute the rule again after predetermined and ever-increasing intervals, up to a point. After that, the rule will run again only at its next scheduled time. A rule will never be auto-disabled due to a transient failure.

#### Permanent failure - rule auto-disabled

A permanent failure occurs due to a change in the conditions that allow the rule to run, which without human intervention will not return to their former status. The following are some examples of failures that are classified as permanent:

- The target workspace (on which the rule query operated) has been deleted.
- The target table (on which the rule query operated) has been deleted.
- Microsoft Sentinel had been removed from the target workspace.
- A function used by the rule query is no longer valid; it has been either modified or removed.
- Permissions to one of the data sources of the rule query were changed.
- One of the data sources of the rule query was deleted or disconnected.

**In the event of a predetermined number of consecutive permanent failures, of the same type and on the same rule,** Microsoft Sentinel stops trying to execute the rule, and also takes the following steps:

- Disables the rule.
- Adds the words **"AUTO DISABLED"** to the beginning of the rule's name.
- Adds the reason for the failure (and the disabling) to the rule's description.

You can easily determine the presence of any auto-disabled rules, by sorting the rule list by name. The auto-disabled rules will be at or near the top of the list.

SOC managers should be sure to check the rule list regularly for the presence of auto-disabled rules.

## Next steps

When using analytics rules to detect threats from Microsoft Sentinel, make sure that you enable all rules associated with your connected data sources in order to ensure full security coverage for your environment. The most efficient way to enable analytics rules is directly from the data connector page, which lists any related rules. For more information, see [Connect data sources](connect-data-sources.md).

You can also push rules to Microsoft Sentinel via [API](/rest/api/securityinsights/) and [PowerShell](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Az.SecurityInsights/0.1.0), although doing so requires additional effort. When using API or PowerShell, you must first export the rules to JSON before enabling the rules. API or PowerShell may be helpful when enabling rules in multiple instances of Microsoft Sentinel with identical settings in each instance.

- Queries are written in Kusto Query Language (KQL). Learn more about KQL [concepts](/azure/data-explorer/kusto/concepts/) and [queries](/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query/), and see this handy [quick reference guide](/azure/data-explorer/kql-quick-reference).



For more information, see:

- [Tutorial: Investigate incidents with Microsoft Sentinel](investigate-cases.md)
- [Classify and analyze data using entities in Microsoft Sentinel](entities.md)
- [Tutorial: Use playbooks with automation rules in Microsoft Sentinel](tutorial-respond-threats-playbook.md)

Also, learn from an example of using custom analytics rules when [monitoring Zoom](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-sentinel/monitoring-zoom-with-azure-sentinel/ba-p/1341516) with a [custom connector](create-custom-connector.md).
