---
title: Detect threats with built-in analytics rules in Azure Sentinel | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to use out-of-the-box threat detection rules, based on built-in templates, that notify you when something suspicious happens.
services: sentinel
documentationcenter: na
author: yelevin
manager: rkarlin
editor: ''

ms.service: azure-sentinel
ms.subservice: azure-sentinel
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: na
ms.date: 03/19/2021
ms.author: yelevin

---
# Tutorial: Detect threats out-of-the-box

Once you have [connected your data sources](quickstart-onboard.md) to Azure Sentinel, you'll want to be notified when something suspicious occurs. That's why Azure Sentinel provides out-of-the-box, built-in templates to help you create threat detection rules. These templates were designed by Microsoft's team of security experts and analysts based on known threats, common attack vectors, and suspicious activity escalation chains. Rules created from these templates will automatically search across your environment for any activity that looks suspicious. Many of the templates can be customized to search for activities, or filter them out, according to your needs. The alerts generated by these rules will create incidents that you can assign and investigate in your environment.

This tutorial helps you detect threats with Azure Sentinel:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Use out-of-the-box threat detections
> * Automate threat responses

## About out-of-the-box detections

To view all the out-of-the-box detections, go to **Analytics** and then **Rule templates**. This tab contains all the Azure Sentinel built-in rules.

   :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-detect-built-in/view-oob-detections.png" alt-text="Use built-in detections to find threats with Azure Sentinel":::

The following template types are available:

- **Microsoft security**
   
   Microsoft security templates automatically create Azure Sentinel incidents from the alerts generated in other Microsoft security solutions, in real time. You can use Microsoft security rules as a template to create new rules with similar logic. For more information about security rules, see [Automatically create incidents from Microsoft security alerts](create-incidents-from-alerts.md).

- **Fusion** 

    Based on Fusion technology, advanced multistage attack detection in Azure Sentinel uses scalable machine learning algorithms that can correlate many low-fidelity alerts and events across multiple products into high-fidelity and actionable incidents. Fusion is enabled by default. Because the logic is hidden and therefore not customizable, you can only create one rule with this template.

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > Some of the detections in the Fusion rule template are currently in **PREVIEW**. See the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/) for additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
    >
    > To see which detections are in preview, see [Advanced multistage attack detection in Azure Sentinel](fusion.md).

- **Machine learning behavioral analytics**

    These templates are based on proprietary Microsoft machine learning algorithms, so you cannot see the internal logic of how they work and when they run. Because the logic is hidden and therefore not customizable, you can only create one rule with each template of this type.

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > - The machine learning behavioral analytics rule templates are currently in **PREVIEW**. See the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/) for additional legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
    >
    > - By creating and enabling any rules based on machine learning templates, **you give Microsoft permission to copy ingested data outside of your Azure Sentinel workspace's geography** as necessary for processing by the machine learning engines and models.

- **Scheduled**

    Scheduled analytics rules are based on built-in queries written by Microsoft security experts. You can see the query logic and make changes to it. You can use the scheduled rules template and customize the query logic and scheduling settings to create new rules.

## Use out-of-the-box detections

1. In order to use a built-in template, click the template name, and then click the **Create rule** button on the details pane to create a new active rule based on that template. Each template has a list of required data sources. When you open the template, the data sources are automatically checked for availability. If there is an availability issue, the **Create rule** button may be disabled, or you may see a warning to that effect.
  
    :::image type="content" source="media/tutorial-detect-built-in/use-built-in-template.png" alt-text="Detection rule preview panel":::
 
1. Clicking the **Create rule** button opens the rule creation wizard based on the selected template. All the details are autofilled, and with the **Scheduled** or **Microsoft security** templates, you can customize the logic and other rule settings to better suit your specific needs. You can repeat this process to create additional rules based on the built-in template. After following the steps in the rule creation wizard to the end, you will have finished creating a rule based on the template. The new rules will appear in the **Active rules** tab.

    For more details on how to customize your rules in the rule creation wizard, see [Tutorial: Create custom analytics rules to detect threats](tutorial-detect-threats-custom.md).

## Next steps

In this tutorial, you learned how to get started detecting threats using Azure Sentinel. 

To learn how to automate your responses to threats, [Set up automated threat responses in Azure Sentinel](tutorial-respond-threats-playbook.md).
