---
title: Investigate alerts with Azure Sentinel| Microsoft Docs
description: Use this tutorial to learn how to investigate alerts with Azure Sentinel.
services: sentinel
documentationcenter: na
author: rkarlin
manager: rkarlin
editor: ''

ms.assetid: b5fbc5ac-68b2-4024-9c1b-bd3cc41a66d0
ms.service: azure-sentinel
ms.subservice: azure-sentinel
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: na
ms.date: 09/10/2019
ms.author: rkarlin

---
# Detect threats with Azure Sentinel



After you [connected your data sources](quickstart-onboard.md) to Azure Sentinel, you want to be notified when something suspicious happens. To enable you to do this, Azure Sentinel provides you with out-of-the-box built-in templates as well as the ability to create custom rules. The built-in templates were designed by Microsoft's team of security experts and analysts based on known threats, common attack vectors, and suspicious activity escalation chains. After enabling these templates, they will automatically search for any activity that looks suspicious across your environment. Many of the templates can be customized to search for, or filter out, activities according to your needs. The alerts generated by these templates can be converted to incidents that you can assign and use to deeply investigate anomalies and threats in your environment. 

These tutorials help you detect threats with Azure Sentinel.




## Next steps
In this tutorial, you learned how to get started detecting threats using Azure Sentinel. 

To learn how to automate your responses to threats, [how to respond to threats using automated playbooks](tutorial-respond-threats-playbook.md).
> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Respond to threats](tutorial-respond-threats-playbook.md) to automate your responses to threats.

