---
title: Work with anomaly detection analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel | Microsoft Docs
description: This article explains how to view, create, manage, assess, and fine-tune anomaly detection analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel.
author: yelevin
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 11/02/2022
ms.author: yelevin
---

# Work with anomaly detection analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel

Microsoft Sentinel’s [customizable anomalies feature](soc-ml-anomalies.md) provides [built-in anomaly templates](detect-threats-built-in.md#anomaly) for immediate value out-of-the-box. These anomaly templates were developed to be robust by using thousands of data sources and millions of events, but this feature also enables you to change thresholds and parameters for the anomalies easily within the user interface. Anomaly rules are enabled, or activated, by default, so they will generate anomalies out-of-the-box. You can find and query these anomalies in the **Anomalies** table in the **Logs** section.

## View customizable anomaly rule templates

You can now find anomaly rules displayed in a grid in the **Anomalies** tab in the **Analytics** page. The list can be filtered by the following criteria:

- **Status** - whether the rule is enabled or disabled.

- **Tactics** - the MITRE ATT&CK framework tactics covered by the anomaly.

- **Techniques** - the MITRE ATT&CK framework techniques covered by the anomaly.

- **Data sources** - the type of logs that need to be ingested and analyzed for the anomaly to be defined.

When you select a rule, you will see the following information in the details pane:

- **Description** explains how the anomaly works and the data it requires.

- **Tactics and techniques** are the MITRE ATT&CK framework tactics and techniques covered by the anomaly.

- **Parameters** are the configurable attributes for the anomaly.

- **Threshold** is a configurable value that indicates the degree to which an event must be unusual before an anomaly is created.

- **Rule frequency** is the time between log processing jobs that find the anomalies.

- **Rule status** tells you whether the rule runs in **Production** or **Flighting** (staging) mode when enabled.

- **Anomaly version** shows the version of the template that is used by a rule. If you want to change the version used by a rule that is already active, you must recreate the rule.

The rules that come with Microsoft Sentinel out of the box cannot be edited or deleted. To customize a rule, you must first create a duplicate of the rule, and then customize the duplicate. [See the complete instructions](#tune-anomaly-rules).

> [!NOTE]
> **Why is there an Edit button if the rule can't be edited?**
>
> While you can't change the configuration of an out-of-the-box anomaly rule, you can do two things:
>
> 1. You can toggle the **rule status** of the rule between **Production** and **Flighting**.
>
> 1. You can submit feedback to Microsoft on your experience with customizable anomalies.



## Assess the quality of anomalies

You can see how well an anomaly rule is performing by reviewing a sample of the anomalies created by a rule over the last 24-hour period. 

1. From the Microsoft Sentinel navigation menu, select **Analytics**.

1. On the **Analytics** page, select the **Anomalies** tab.

1. Select the rule you want to assess, and copy its ID from the top of the details pane to the right.

1. From the Microsoft Sentinel navigation menu, select **Logs**.

1. If a **Queries** gallery pops up over the top, close it.

1. Select the **Tables** tab on the left pane of the **Logs** page.

1. Set the **Time range** filter to **Last 24 hours**.

1. Copy the Kusto query below and paste it in the query window (where it says "Type your query here or..."):

    ```kusto
    Anomalies 
    | where RuleId contains "<RuleId>"
    ```
    Paste the rule ID you copied above in place of `<RuleId>` between the quotation marks.

1. Select **Run**. 

When you have some results, you can start assessing the quality of the anomalies. If you don’t have results, try increasing the time range.

Expand the results for each anomaly and then expand the **AnomalyReasons** field. This will tell you why the anomaly fired.

The "reasonableness" or "usefulness" of an anomaly may depend on the conditions of your environment, but a common reason for an anomaly rule to produce too many anomalies is that the threshold is too low.

## Tune anomaly rules

While anomaly rules are engineered for maximum effectiveness out of the box, every situation is unique and sometimes anomaly rules need to be tuned.

Since you can't edit an original active rule, you must first duplicate an active anomaly rule and then customize the copy.

The original anomaly rule will keep running until you either disable or delete it.

This is by design, to give you the opportunity to compare the results generated by the original configuration and the new one. Duplicate rules are disabled by default. You can only make one customized copy of any given anomaly rule. Attempts to make a second copy will fail.

1. To change the configuration of an anomaly rule, select the rule from the list in the **Anomalies** tab.

1. Right-click anywhere on the row of the rule, or left-click the ellipsis (...) at the end of the row, then select **Duplicate** from the context menu.

    A new rule will appear in the list, with the following characteristics:
    - The rule name will be the same as the original, with " - Customized" appended to the end.
    - The rule's status will be **Disabled**.
    - The **FLGT** badge will appear at the beginning of the row to indicate that the rule is in Flighting mode.

1. To customize this rule, select the rule and select **Edit** in the details pane, or from the rule's context menu.

1. The rule opens in the Analytics rule wizard. Here you can change the parameters of the rule and its threshold. The parameters that can be changed vary with each anomaly type and algorithm.

    You can preview the results of your changes in the **Results preview pane**. Select an **Anomaly ID** in the results preview to see why the ML model identifies that anomaly.

1. Enable the customized rule to generate results. Some of your changes may require the rule to run again, so you must wait for it to finish and come back to check the results on the logs page. The customized anomaly rule runs in **Flighting** (testing) mode by default. The original rule continues to run in **Production** mode by default.

1. To compare the results, go back to the Anomalies table in **Logs** to [assess the new rule as before](#assess-the-quality-of-anomalies), only use the following query instead to look for anomalies generated by the original rule as well as the duplicate rule.

    ```kusto
    Anomalies 
    | where AnomalyTemplateId contains "<RuleId>"
    ```
    Paste the rule ID you copied from the original rule in place of `<RuleId>` between the quotation marks. The value of `AnomalyTemplateId` in both the original and duplicate rules is identical to the value of `RuleId` in the original rule.

If you are satisfied with the results for the customized rule, you can go back to the **Anomalies** tab, select the customized rule, select the **Edit** button and on the **General** tab switch it from **Flighting** to **Production**. The original rule will automatically change to **Flighting** since you can't have two versions of the same rule in production at the same time. 

## Next steps

In this document, you learned how to work with customizable anomaly detection analytics rules in Microsoft Sentinel.

- Get some background information about [customizable anomalies](soc-ml-anomalies.md).
- View the [available anomaly types](anomalies-reference.md) in Microsoft Sentinel.
- Explore other [analytics rule types](detect-threats-built-in.md).
