---
title: Azure Site Recovery deployment planner Compatible VMs details for  Hyper-V-to-Azure| Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes Compatible VMs details in the  generated report using Azure Site Recovery deployment planner for Hyper-V to Azure scenario.
services: site-recovery
documentationcenter: ''
author: nsoneji
manager: garavd
editor:

ms.assetid:
ms.service: site-recovery
ms.workload: storage-backup-recovery
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: hero-article
ms.date: 11/27/2017
ms.author: nisoneji

---
# Compatible VMs details of the Hyper-V to Azure report
The Microsoft Excel report generated by Site Recovery deployment planner provides all compatible VMs details in "Compatible VMs" sheet.

**VM Name**: The VM name that's used in the VMListFile when a report is generated. This column also lists the disks (VHDs) that are attached to the VMs. The names include the Hyper-V host names where the VMs were placed when the tool discovered them during the profiling period.

**VM Compatibility**: Values are **Yes** and **Yes**\*. **Yes**\* is for instances in which the VM is a fit for [Azure Premium Storage](https://aka.ms/premium-storage-workload). Here, the profiled high churn or IOPS disk fits in higher premium disk size than the size mapped to the disk. The storage account decides which premium storage disk type to map a disk to, based on its size. 
* <128 GB is a P10.
* 128 GB to 256 GB is a P15
* 256 GB to 512 GB is a P20.
* 512 GB to 1024 GB is a P30.
* 1025 GB to 2048 GB is a P40.
* 2049 GB to 4095 GB is a P50.

For example, if the workload characteristics of a disk put it in the P20 or P30 category, but the size maps it down to a lower premium storage disk type, the tool marks that VM as **Yes**\*. The tool also recommends that you either change the source disk size to fit into the recommended premium storage disk type or change the target disk type post-failover.

**Storage Type**: Standard or premium.

**Suggested Prefix**: The three-character storage-account prefix.

**Storage Account**: The name that uses the suggested storage-account prefix.

**R/W IOPS (with Growth Factor)**: The peak workload read/write IOPS on the disk (default is 95th percentile), including the future growth factor (default is 30%). Note that the total read/write IOPS of a VM are not always the sum of the VM’s individual disks’ read/write IOPS, because the peak read/write IOPS of the VM are the peak of the sum of its individual disks' read/write IOPS during every minute of the profiling period.

**Data Churn in MBps (with Growth Factor)**: The peak churn rate on the disk (default is 95th percentile), including the future growth factor (default is 30%). Note that the total data churn of the VM is not always the sum of the VM’s individual disks’ data churn, because the peak data churn of the VM is the peak of the sum of its individual disks' churn during every minute of the profiling period.

**Azure VM Size**: The ideal mapped Azure Cloud Services virtual-machine size for this on-premises VM. The mapping is based on the on-premises VM’s memory, number of disks/cores/NICs, and read/write IOPS. The recommendation is always the lowest Azure VM size that matches all the on-premises VM characteristics.

**Number of Disks**: The total number of virtual machine disks (VHDs) on the VM.

**Disk size (GB)**: The total size of all disks of the VM. The tool also shows the disk size for the individual disks in the VM.

**Cores**: The number of CPU cores on the VM.

**Memory (MB)**: The RAM on the VM.

**NICs**: The number of NICs on the VM.

**Boot Type**: Boot type of the VM. It can be either BIOS or EFI.

## Next steps
* Learn more about [incompatible VMs](site-recovery-hyper-v-deployment-planner-incompatible-vms.md).
* Learn more about estimated [DR cost to Azure](site-recovery-hyper-v-deployment-planner-cost-estimation.md) using Azure Site Recovery.
