---
title: Azure Site Recovery deployment planner Incompatible VMs for  Hyper-V-to-Azure| Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes Incompatible VMs details in the  generated report using Azure Site Recovery deployment planner for Hyper-V to Azure scenario.
services: site-recovery
documentationcenter: ''
author: nsoneji
manager: garavd
editor:

ms.assetid:
ms.service: site-recovery
ms.workload: storage-backup-recovery
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: hero-article
ms.date: 11/27/2017
ms.author: nisoneji

---
# Incompatible VMs details for the Hyper-V to Azure report
The Microsoft Excel report generated by Azure Site Recovery deployment planner provides all incompatible VMs details in "Incompatible VMs" sheet.

**VM Name**: The VM name that's used in the VMListFile when a report is generated. This column also lists the disks (VHDs) that are attached to the VMs. The names include the Hyper-V host names where the VMs were placed when the tool discovered them during the profiling period.

**VM Compatibility**: Indicates why the given VM is incompatible for use with Azure Site Recovery. The reasons are described for each incompatible disk of the VM and, based on published [storage limits](https://aka.ms/azure-storage-scalbility-performance), can be any of the following:

* Disk size is > 4095 GB. Azure Storage currently does not support data disk sizes greater than 4095 GB.

* OS disk is > 2047 GB for Generation 1 (BIOS boot type) VM.  Azure Site Recovery does not support OS disk size greater than 2047 GB for generation 1 VMs.

* OS disk is > 300 GB for Generation 2 (EFI boot type) VM. Azure Site Recovery does not support OS disk size greater than 300 GB for generation 2 VMs.

* VM name contains any of the following characters “” [] ` are not supported.  The tool cannot get profiled data of VMs, which have any of these characters in their names. 

* VHD is shared by two or more VMs. Azure does not support  VMs with shared VHD.

* VM with Virtual Fiber Channel is not supported. Azure Site Recovery does not support  VMs with Virtual Fiber Channel.

* Hyper-V cluster does not contain replication broker. Azure Site Recovery does not support a VM of Hyper-V cluster if the Hyper-V replica broker is not configured on each cluster node.

* VM is not highly available. Azure Site Recovery does not support a VMs of Hyper-V cluster node whose VHDs are stored on the local disk instead of on the cluster disk. 

* Total VM size (replication + TFO) exceeds the supported premium storage-account size limit (35 TB). This incompatibility usually occurs when a single disk in the VM has a performance characteristic that exceeds the maximum supported Azure or Azure Site Recovery limits for standard storage. Such an instance pushes the VM into the premium storage zone. However, the maximum supported size of a premium storage account is 35 TB, and a single protected VM cannot be protected across multiple storage accounts. Also note that when a test failover is executed on a protected VM, if unmanaged disk is configured for test failover, it runs in the same storage account, where replication is progressing. In this instance, additional same amount of storage space is required as that of replication. It ensures replication to progress and test failover to succeed in parallel. When managed disk is configured for test failover, no additional space needs to be accounted for the test failover VM.

* Source IOPS exceeds supported storage IOPS limit of 7500 per disk.

* Source IOPS exceeds supported storage IOPS limit of 80,000 per VM.

* Average data churn exceeds supported Azure Site Recovery data churn limit of 10 MBps for average I/O size for the disk.

* Average effective write IOPS exceeds the supported Azure Site Recovery IOPS limit of 840 for disk.

* Calculated snapshot storage exceeds the supported snapshot storage limit of 10 TB.

**Peak R/W IOPS (with Growth Factor)**: The peak workload IOPS on the disk (default is 95th percentile), including the future growth factor (default is 30%). Note that the total read/write IOPS of the VM is not always the sum of the VM’s individual disks’ read/write IOPS, because the peak read/write IOPS of the VM is the peak of the sum of its individual disks' read/write IOPS during every minute of the profiling period.

**Peak Data Churn in MBps (with Growth Factor)**: The peak churn rate on the disk (default is 95th percentile) including the future growth factor (default is 30%). Note that the total data churn of the VM is not always the sum of the VM’s individual disks’ data churn, because the peak data churn of the VM is the peak of the sum of its individual disks' churn during every minute of the profiling period.

**Number of Disks**: The total number of VMDKs on the VM.

**Disk size (GB)**: The total setup size of all disks of the VM. The tool also shows the disk size for the individual disks in the VM.

**Cores**: The number of CPU cores on the VM.

**Memory (MB)**: The amount of RAM on the VM.

**NICs**: The number of NICs on the VM.

**Boot Type**: Boot type of the VM. It can be either BIOS or EFI.


## Next steps
* Learn more about [Azure Site Recovery limits](site-recovery-hyper-v-deployment-planner-site-recovery-limits.md).
* Learn more about [compatible VMs](site-recovery-hyper-v-deployment-planner-compatible-vms.md).
* Learn more about [on-premises storage requirement](site-recovery-hyper-v-deployment-planner-on-premises-storage-requirement.md).