---
title: Responsible AI FAQ for Azure Monitor Investigator
description: Learn how Azure Monitor Investigator uses data responsibly, what data is collected, and how to work with it.
ms.date: 04/09/2024
ms.topic: faq
ms.service: azure-monitor
ms.author: abbyweisberg
author: AbbyMSFT
ms.reviewer: yalavi

# customer intent: To learn about how Azure Monitor Investigator uses data and what to expect.
---

# Responsible AI FAQ for Azure Monitor Investigator (preview)

## What is Azure Monitor Investigator (preview)?

Azure Monitor Investigator is an advanced AIOps solution that helps IT operations teams efficiently find, troubleshoot, and resolve incidents. It uses AI and machine learning to automate the investigation process, offering insights and recommendations for issue mitigation based on data such as platform metrics, custom metrics, and Azure Monitor Workspace Prometheus metrics. For an overview of how Azure Monitor Investigator works and a summary of its capabilities, see the [Azure Monitor Investigator (preview) overview](investigator-overview.md).

## Are Azure Monitor Investigator's (preview) results reliable?

Azure Monitor Investigator is designed to generate the best possible suggestions based on the data and context to which it has access. However, like any AI-powered system, its responses might not always be perfect. The results generated by Azure Monitor Investigator should be carefully evaluated, tested, and validated before being deployed to your Azure environment.

## How does Azure Monitor Investigator (preview) use data from my Azure environment?

Azure Monitor Investigator analyzes data within your Azure environment to generate responses. Azure Monitor Investigator only has access to resources that you have access to and can only perform actions that you have the permissions to perform, Azure Monitor Investigator operates within the constraints of your existing access management controls, such as Azure Role-Based Action Control, Privileged Identity Management, Azure Policy, and resource locks.

## What data does Azure Monitor Investigator (preview) collect?

Azure Monitor Investigator doesn't use user-provided prompts or its own responses to train or improve the underlying AI models. User engagement data, such as the number of sessions, session duration, selected skills, and feedback, might be collected to improve Microsoft products and services, subject to the [Microsoft Privacy Statement](https://privacy.microsoft.com/privacystatement) and explicit user consent.

## What should I do if I see unexpected or offensive content?

Azure Monitor Investigator development is guided by our [AI principles](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/principles-and-approach) and [Responsible AI Standard](https://aka.ms/RAIStandardPDF). We have prioritized mitigating exposing customers to offensive content. However, you might still see unexpected results. We continually work to improve the technology to prevent such content.

## How current is the information Azure Monitor Investigator (preview) provides?

Azure Monitor Investigator uses the latest data available to provide the most recent information. While there might be some lag in the data coming in to the monitoring system, it generally provides current information.

## Do all Azure services have the same level of integration with Azure Monitor Investigator (preview)?

No. Our goal is to provide the same level of integration of Azure Monitor Investigator with all Azure services. We're continuously working to add more Azure Monitor Investigator integrations with more Azure services.

## What are the fairness considerations in the development of Azure Monitor Investigator (preview)?

Fairness is a core part of Azure Monitor Investigator's development. Consistent performance across different scenarios and input data types is critical. The system is evaluated for fairness harms, including monitoring log probabilities for answer reliability and checking for incorrect output. Measures are taken to prevent harmful generated text and ensure that fallback options are in place when AI encounters issues like timeouts or service unavailability.

## How should I integrate Azure Monitor Investigator (preview) into my workflow?

To integrate Azure Monitor Investigator effectively into your operations, it's important to understand its capabilities and limitations. Testing using real data from your environment helps to evaluate its performance. Ensure that SREs are trained in the system's intended uses, how to interact with it, and when to rely on human judgment over automated output. This balanced approach maximizes the benefits of Azure Monitor Investigator while maintaining oversight and control.

## Related content

- Learn about Azure Monitor AI and Machine Learning capabilities in [Azure Monitor AI and Machine Learning](../logs/aiops-machine-learning.md).
- [Use AIOps to investigate incidents Azure Monitor Investigator](investigate-alert-instance.md).

