---
title: View authentication details for Microsoft Azure Maps
description: Use the Azure portal to view authentication details for Azure Maps. 
author: anastasia-ms
ms.author: v-stharr
ms.date: 06/21/2021 
ms.topic: include
ms.service: azure-maps
services: azure-maps

custom.ms: subject-rbac-steps
---


To view your Azure Maps account authentication details in the Azure portal:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

2. Navigate to the Azure portal menu. Select **All resources**, and then select your Azure Maps account.

3. Under **Settings** in the left pane, select **Authentication**.

    :::image type="content" border="false" source="../media/shared/get-key.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing your Azure Maps authentication options in the Azure portal." lightbox="../media/shared/get-key.png":::

Three values are created when the Azure Maps account is created. They're used to support two types of authentication in Azure Maps:
- **Microsoft Entra authentication**: The `Client ID` represents the account that is to be used for REST API requests. The `Client ID` value should be stored in application configuration, and then it should be retrieved before making Azure Maps HTTP requests that use Microsoft Entra authentication.
- **Shared Key Authentication**: The `Primary Key` and `Secondary Key` are used as the subscription key for Shared Key authentication. Shared Key authentication relies on passing the key generated by the Azure Maps account with each request to Azure Maps. We recommend that you regularly regenerate your keys. To maintain current connections during regeneration, two keys are provided. One key can be in use, while regenerating the other. When you regenerate your keys, you must update any applications that access this account to use the new keys. For more information, see [Authentication with Azure Maps](../azure-maps-authentication.md)
