---
title: View live data with Container insights
description: This article describes the real-time view of Kubernetes logs, events, and pod metrics without using kubectl in Container insights.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 05/24/2022
ms.custom: references_regions
ms.reviewer: aul
---

# View Kubernetes logs, events, and pod metrics in real time

The Live Data feature in Container insights gives you direct access to your Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) container logs (stdout/stderror), events, and pod metrics. It exposes direct access to `kubectl logs -c`, `kubectl get` events, and `kubectl top pods`. A console pane shows the logs, events, and metrics generated by the container engine to help with troubleshooting issues in real time.

> [!NOTE]
> AKS uses [Kubernetes cluster-level logging architectures](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#cluster-level-logging-architectures). You can use tools such as Fluentd or Fluent Bit to collect logs.

This article provides an overview of this feature and helps you understand how to use it.

For help with setting up or troubleshooting the Live Data feature, see the [Setup guide](container-insights-livedata-setup.md). This feature directly accesses the Kubernetes API. For more information about the authentication model, see [The Kubernetes API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/).

## View AKS resource live logs

To view the live logs for pods, deployments, replica sets, stateful sets, daemon sets, and jobs with or without Container insights from the AKS resource view:

1. In the Azure portal, browse to the AKS cluster resource group and select your AKS resource.

1. Select **Workloads** in the **Kubernetes resources** section of the menu.

1. Select a pod, deployment, replica set, stateful set, daemon set, or job from the respective tab.

1. Select **Live Logs** from the resource's menu.

1. Select a pod to start collecting the live data.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/live-data-deployment.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the deployment of live logs." lightbox="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/live-data-deployment.png":::

## View logs

You can view real-time log data as it's generated by the container engine on the **Nodes**, **Controllers**, or **Containers** view. To view log data:

1. In the Azure portal, browse to the AKS cluster resource group and select your AKS resource.

1. On the AKS cluster dashboard, under **Monitoring** on the left side, select **Insights**.

1. Select the **Nodes**, **Controllers**, or **Containers** tab.

1. Select an object from the performance grid. In the **Properties** pane on the right side, select the **Live Logs** tab. If the AKS cluster is configured with single sign-on by using Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), you're prompted to authenticate on first use during that browser session. Select your account and finish authentication with Azure.

    >[!NOTE]
    >To view the data from your Log Analytics workspace, select **View in Log analytics** in the **Properties** pane. The log search results potentially show **Nodes**, **Daemon Sets**, **Replica Sets**, **Stateful Sets**, **Jobs**, **Cron Jobs**, **Pods**, and **Containers**. These logs might no longer exist. The log search results for **Stateful Sets** shows the data for the pods in a stateful set. Attempting to search logs for a container that isn't available in `kubectl` will also fail here. To learn more about viewing historical logs, events, and metrics, see [How to query logs from Container insights](container-insights-log-query.md).

After successful authentication, if data can be retrieved, it begins streaming to the Live Logs tab. You can view log data here in a continuous stream.

:::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/node-properties-pane.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Node properties pane view data option." lightbox="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/node-properties-pane.png":::

## View events

You can view real-time event data as it's generated by the container engine on the **Nodes**, **Controllers**, **Containers**, or **Deployments** view when a container, pod, node, ReplicaSet, StatefulSet, DaemonSet, job, CronJob, or Deployment is selected. To view events:

1. In the Azure portal, browse to the AKS cluster resource group and select your AKS resource.

1. On the AKS cluster dashboard, under **Monitoring** on the left side, select **Insights**.

1. Select the **Nodes**, **Controllers**, **Containers**, or **Deployments** tab.

1. Select an object from the performance grid. In the **Properties** pane on the right side, select the **Live Events** tab. If the AKS cluster is configured with single sign-on by using Azure AD, you're prompted to authenticate on first use during that browser session. Select your account and finish authentication with Azure.

    >[!NOTE]
    >To view the data from your Log Analytics workspace, select **View in Log Analytics** in the **Properties** pane. The log search results potentially show **Nodes**, **Daemon Sets**, **Replica Sets**, **Stateful Sets**, **Jobs**, **Cron Jobs**, **Pods**, and **Containers**. These logs might no longer exist. The log search results for **Stateful Sets** shows the data for the pods in a stateful set. Attempting to search logs for a container that isn't available in `kubectl` will also fail here. To learn more about viewing historical logs, events, and metrics, see [How to query logs from Container insights](container-insights-log-query.md).

After successful authentication, if data can be retrieved, it begins streaming to the Live Events tab.

:::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/controller-properties-live-event.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Controller properties pane view events." lightbox="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/controller-properties-live-event.png":::

### Filter events

While you view events, you can also limit the results by using the **Filter** pill found below the search bar. Depending on the resource you select, the pill lists a node, pod, namespace, or cluster to choose from.

## View metrics

You can view real-time metric data as it's generated by the container engine from the **Nodes** or **Controllers** view only when a **Pod** is selected. To view metrics:

1. In the Azure portal, browse to the AKS cluster resource group and select your AKS resource.

1. On the AKS cluster dashboard, under **Monitoring** on the left side, select **Insights**.

1. Select either the **Nodes** or **Controllers** tab.

1. Select a **Pod** object from the performance grid. In the **Properties** pane on the right side, select the **Live Metrics** tab. If the AKS cluster is configured with single sign-on by using Azure AD, you're prompted to authenticate on first use during that browser session. Select your account and finish authentication with Azure.

    >[!NOTE]
    >To view the data from your Log Analytics workspace, select the **View in Log Analytics** option in the **Properties** pane. The log search results potentially show **Nodes**, **Daemon Sets**, **Replica Sets**, **Stateful Sets**, **Jobs**, **Cron Jobs**, **Pods**, and **Containers**. These logs might no longer exist. The log search results for **Stateful Sets** shows the data for the pods in a stateful set. Attempting to search logs for a container that isn't available in `kubectl` will also fail here. To learn more about viewing historical logs, events, and metrics, see [How to query logs from Container insights](container-insights-log-query.md).

After successful authentication, metric data is retrieved and begins streaming to the Live Metrics tab for presentation in the two charts.

:::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/pod-properties-live-metrics.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the View Pod metrics example." lightbox="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/pod-properties-live-metrics.png":::

## Use live data views

The following sections describe functionality that you can use in the different live data views.

### Search

The Live Data feature includes search functionality. In the **Search** box, you can filter results by entering a keyword or term. Any matching results are highlighted to allow quick review. While you view the events, you can also limit the results by using the **Filter** feature below the search bar. Depending on what resource you've selected, you can choose from a node, pod, namespace, or cluster.

:::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/livedata-pane-filter-example.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Live Data console pane filter example." lightbox="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/livedata-pane-filter-example.png":::

:::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/live-data-deployment-search.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Live Data console pane filter example for deployment." lightbox="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/live-data-deployment-search.png":::

### Scroll lock and pause

To suspend autoscroll and control the behavior of the tab so that you can manually scroll through the new data read, select the **Scroll** option. To re-enable autoscroll, select **Scroll** again. You can also pause retrieval of log or event data by selecting the **Pause** option. When you're ready to resume, select **Play**.

:::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/livedata-pane-scroll-pause-example.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Live Data console pane pause live view." lightbox="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/livedata-pane-scroll-pause-example.png":::

:::image type="content" source="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/live-data-deployment-pause.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Live Data console pane pause live view for deployment." lightbox="./media/container-insights-livedata-overview/live-data-deployment-pause.png":::

Suspend or pause autoscroll for only a short period of time while you're troubleshooting an issue. These requests might affect the availability and throttling of the Kubernetes API on your cluster.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>No data is stored permanently during the operation of this feature. All information captured during the session is deleted when you close your browser or navigate away from it. Data only remains present for visualization inside the five-minute window of the metrics feature. Any metrics older than five minutes are also deleted. The Live Data buffer queries within reasonable memory usage limits.

## Next steps

- To continue learning how to use Azure Monitor and monitor other aspects of your AKS cluster, see [View Azure Kubernetes Service health](container-insights-analyze.md).
- To see predefined queries and examples to create alerts and visualizations or perform further analysis of your clusters, see [How to query logs from Container insights](container-insights-log-query.md).