---
title: Monitor Azure Load Testing
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure Load Testing
author: Sachid26
ms.topic: how-to
ms.author: sacsh
ms.service: load-testing
ms.custom: subject-monitoring
ms.date: 04/22/2022
---



# Monitor Azure Load Testing

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation. 

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Load Testing.


## What is Azure Monitor?
Azure Load Testing creates monitoring data using [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md), which is a full stack monitoring service in Azure. Azure Monitor provides a complete set of features to monitor your Azure resources. It can also monitor resources in other clouds and on-premises.

Start with the article [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md), which describes the following concepts:

- What is Azure Monitor?
- Costs associated with monitoring
- Monitoring data collected in Azure
- Configuring data collection
- Standard tools in Azure for analyzing and alerting on monitoring data

The following sections build on this article by describing the specific data gathered for Azure Load Testing. These sections also provide examples for configuring data collection and analyzing this data with Azure tools.

> [!TIP]
> To understand costs associated with Azure Monitor, see [Usage and estimated costs](../azure-monitor//usage-estimated-costs.md). To understand the time it takes for your data to appear in Azure Monitor, see [Log data ingestion time](../azure-monitor/logs/data-ingestion-time.md).

## Monitoring data 


Azure Load Testing collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md#monitoring-data-from-azure-resources). 

See [Monitor Azure Load Testing data reference](monitor-load-testing-reference.md) for detailed information on logs metrics created by Azure Load Testing.



## Collection and routing


Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

Resource Logs are not collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.


See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for Azure Load Testing are listed in [Monitor Azure Load Testing data reference](monitor-load-testing-reference.md#resource-logs).


The following sections describe which types of logs you can collect.

## Analyzing logs

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](../azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema.md). You can find the schema for Azure Load Testing resource logs in the [Monitor Azure Load Testing data reference](monitor-load-testing-reference.md#resource-logs).

The [Activity log](../azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log.md) is a type of platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.  

For a list of resource logs types collected for Azure Load Testing, see [Monitor Azure Load Testing data reference](monitor-load-testing-reference.md#resource-logs).


### Sample Kusto queries


> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you select **Logs** from the Azure Load Testing menu, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current [service name]. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other [service resource] or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](../azure-monitor/logs/scope.md) for details.


Following are queries that you can use to help you monitor your Azure Load Testing resources:
- Retrieve the list of tests:
```
AzureLoadTestingOperation
| where OperationId == "Test_CreateOrUpdateTest"
| where HttpStatusCode == 201
| summarize count() by _ResourceId
   
```
- Retrieve the list of test runs:
```
AzureLoadTestingOperation
| where OperationId == "TestRun_CreateAndUpdateTest"
| where HttpStatusCode == 201
| summarize count() by _ResourceId
   
```


## Next steps


- See [Monitor Azure Load Testing data reference](monitor-load-testing-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure Load Testing.

- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md) for details on monitoring Azure resources.
