<properties
   pageTitle="Azure Service Fabric Actors Diagnostics and Performance Monitoring"
   description="This article describes the diagnostics and performance monitoring features in the Fabric Actors runtime, including the events and performance counters emitted by it."
   services="service-fabric"
   documentationCenter=".net"
   authors="abhishekram"
   manager="timlt"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="service-fabric"
   ms.devlang="dotnet"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="NA"
   ms.workload="NA"
   ms.date="04/22/2014"
   ms.author="abhisram"/>

# Introduction
Fabric Actors runtime emits [EventSource](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/system.diagnostics.tracing.eventsource.aspx) events and [performance counters](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/system.diagnostics.performancecounter.aspx) that provide insights into how the runtime is operating and help with troubleshooting and performance monitoring.

## EventSource events
The EventSource name for Fabric Actors runtime is "Microsoft-ServiceFabric-Actors". Events from this event source appear in the [Diagnostics Events](service-fabric-diagnostics-how-to-monitor-and-diagnose-services-locally.md#view-service-fabric-system-events-in-visual-studio) window when the actor application is being [debugged in Visual Studio](service-fabric-debugging-your-application.md).

Service Fabric also offers the option of directing these events to [Application Insights](http://azure.microsoft.com/services/application-insights/). For more information on this, please see the article on [Application Insights setup for Service Fabric](service-fabric-diagnostics-application-insights-setup.md).

Other examples of tools and technologies that help in collecting and/or viewing EventSource events are [PerfView](http://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=28567), [Azure Diagnostics](http://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/cloud-services-dotnet-diagnostics/), [Semantic Logging](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn774980.aspx) and the [Microsoft TraceEvent Library](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Diagnostics.Tracing.TraceEvent).

### Keywords
All events that belong to the Fabric Actors EventSource are associated with one or more keywords. This enables filtering of events that are collected. The following keywords bits are defined:

|Bit|Description|
|-|-|
|0x1|Set of important events that summarize the operation of the Fabric Actors runtime|
|0x2|Set of events describing actor method calls|
|0x4|Set of events related to saving actor state|
|0x8|Set of events related to turn-based concurrency in the actor|

## Performance counters
The Fabric Actors runtime defines the following performance counter categories.

|Category|Description|
|-|-|
|Service Fabric Actor|Counters specific to Service Fabric actors. e.g. time taken to save actor state.|
|Service Fabric Actor Method|Counters specific to methods implemented by Service Fabric actors. e.g. how often an actor method is invoked.|

Each of the above categories has one or more counters.

The [Windows Performance Monitor](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/cc749249.aspx) application that is available by default in the Windows operating system can be used to collect and view performance counter data. [Azure Diagnostics](http://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/cloud-services-dotnet-diagnostics/) is another option for collecting performance counter data and uploading it to Azure tables.

### Performance counter instance names
A cluster with a large number of actor services or actor service partitions will have a large number of actor performance counter instances. The performance counter instances names can help in identifying the specific entity that the performance counter instance is associated with.

#### `Service Fabric Actor` category
For the category `Service Fabric Actor`, the counter instance names are in the following format:

`ServiceFabricPartitionID_ActorsRuntimeInternalID`

*ServiceFabricPartitionID* - is the string representation of the Service Fabric partition ID that the performance counter instance is associated with. The partition ID is a GUID and its string representation is generated using the [`Guid.ToString`](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/97af8hh4.aspx) method with format specifier "D".

*ActorRuntimeInternalID* - is the string representation of a 64-bit integer that is generated by the Fabric Actors runtime for its internal use. This is included in the performance counter instance name to ensure its uniqueness and avoid conflict with other performance counter instance names. Users should not try to interpret this portion of the performance counter instance name.

The following is an example of a counter instance name for a counter belonging to the 'Service Fabric Actor' category:

`2740af29-78aa-44bc-a20b-7e60fb783264_635650083799324046`

In the example above, `2740af29-78aa-44bc-a20b-7e60fb783264` is the string representation of the Service Fabric partition ID and `635650083799324046` is the 64-bit ID that is generated for the runtime's internal use.

#### `Service Fabric Actor Method` category
For the category `Service Fabric Actor Method`, the counter instance names are in the following format:

`MethodName_ActorsRuntimeMethodId_ServiceFabricPartitionID_ActorsRuntimeInternalID`

*MethodName* - is the name of the actor method that the performance counter instance is associated with. The format of the method name is determined based on some logic in the Fabric Actors runtime that balances the readability of the name with constraints on the maximum length of the performance counter instance names on Windows.

*ActorsRuntimeMethodId* - is the string representation of a 32-bit integer that is generated by the Fabric Actors runtime for its internal use. This is included in the performance counter instance name to ensure its uniqueness and avoid conflict with other performance counter instance names. Users should not try to interpret this portion of the performance counter instance name.

*ServiceFabricPartitionID* - is the string representation of the Service Fabric partition ID that the performance counter instance is associated with. The partition ID is a GUID and its string representation is generated using the [`Guid.ToString`](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/97af8hh4.aspx) method with format specifier "D".

*ActorRuntimeInternalID* - is the string representation of a 64-bit integer that is generated by the Fabric Actors runtime for its internal use. This is included in the performance counter instance name to ensure its uniqueness and avoid conflict with other performance counter instance names. Users should not try to interpret this portion of the performance counter instance name.

The following is an example of a counter instance name for a counter belonging to the 'Service Fabric Actor Method' category:

`ivoicemailboxactor.leavemessageasync_2_89383d32-e57e-4a9b-a6ad-57c6792aa521_635650083804480486`

In the example above, `ivoicemailboxactor.leavemessageasync` is the method name, `2` is the 32-bit ID generated for the runtime's internal use, `89383d32-e57e-4a9b-a6ad-57c6792aa521` is the string representation of the Service Fabric partition ID and `635650083804480486` is the 64-bit ID generated for the runtime's internal use.
