<properties 
   pageTitle="FabAct Overview" 
   description="Introduction to FabAct programming model" 
   services="winfabric" 
   documentationCenter=".net" 
   authors="clca" 
   manager="timlt" 
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="winfabric"
   ms.devlang="dotnet"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="NA"
   ms.workload="NA" 
   ms.date="03/02/2015"
   ms.author="claudioc"/>

#Overview
FabAct is an Actor programming model for Windows Fabric. Windows Fabric is a platform for building highly reliable, scalable applications for both cloud and on premise that are easy to develop and manage.

FabAct provides an asynchronous, single-threaded actor model. The actors represents the unit of state and computation that are distributed throughout the cluster to achieve high scalability. When the actor processes or the nodes on which they are hosted fails, the system recreates them on different node or processes. The framework leverages the distributed store provided by underlying Windows Fabric platform to provide highly available and consistent state management for the application developers. This makes developing and maintaining distributed cloud applications extremely easy.

#Actors
The Actors are isolated single-threaded components that encapsulate both state and behavior. They are similar to .NET objects and hence provides a natural programming model to the developers. Actors interacts with rest of the system, including other actors by passing asynchronous messages with request-response pattern. These interactions are defined in an interface as asynchronous methods. Actors implementing these methods do not have to deal with locking or other concurrency issues as the framework provides a turn based concurrency for the actor methods. This means that not more than one thread will be active at any time inside the actor methods.

The actors in FabAct are virtual actors meaning that they always exists. You do not need to explicitly create them nor destroy them. The framework along with the underlying platform provides the location transparency and failover for the actors. If an actor is not used for certain time the framework will garbage collect it and will recreate it at later time if required.

#Actors and Windows Fabric Services
Every Actor type is mapped to a Windows Fabric Service which is partitioned based on the int64 keys. The number of partitions for a service can be specified in the ApplicationManifest.xml generated by FabActUtil.exe. Each partition of the service can have one or more replica depending upon the state provider used as well as settings in the ApplicationManifest.xml. The platform places the replicas of various partition on different nodes available in the cluster. These partitions run inside the Code that hosts the service and hence the Actors. This is the executable that registers the Actor implementations with Windows Fabric runtime. 

The partitions provides automatic scaling for your applications whereas the replicas provides reliability for the state. As you add more nodes the resource manager of Windows Fabric will spread out the partition to utilize the cluster resources more effectively. The resource manager optimizes the placement based on the available fault and upgrade domains in the cluster. Note that two replicas of the same partition are never placed in on the same node.