---
title: Azure Monitor cost estimates
description: Overview of how to estimate Azure Monitor billable usage.
services: azure-monitor
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.reviewer: Dale.Koetke
ms.date: 09/20/2023
---
# Azure Monitor cost estimates
This article provides guidance on using the [pricing calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/?service=monitor) to estimate your Azure Monitor cost based on your expected utilization.

The bulk of your Azure Monitor costs will typically be from data ingestion and retention for your Log Analytics workspaces and Application Insights resources. It's difficult to give accurate estimates for data volumes that you can expect since they'll vary significantly based on your configuration. A common strategy is to enable monitoring for a small group of resources and use the observed data volumes with the calculator to determine your costs for a full environment. See [Analyze usage in Log Analytics workspace](logs/analyze-usage.md) for queries and other methods to measure the billable data in your Log Analytics workspace.

>[!NOTE]
>The billable data volume is calculated using a customer friendly, cost-effective method. The billed data volume is defined as the size of the data that will be stored, excluding a set of standard columns and any JSON wrapper that was part of the data received for ingestion. This billable data volume is substantially smaller than the size of the entire JSON-packaged event, often less than 50%. It is essential to understand this calculation of billed data size when estimating costs and comparing to other pricing models. [Learn more](logs/cost-logs.md#data-size-calculation).

## Virtual machines
With typical monitoring enabled, a virtual machine will generate between 1 GB to 3 GB of data per month. This is highly dependent on the configuration of your agents.

## Application Insights
There are two methods that you can use to estimate the amount of data from an application monitored with Application Insights.

### Learn from what similar applications collect
In the Azure Monitoring Pricing calculator for Application Insights, enable **Estimate data volume based on application activity** which allows you to provide inputs about your application. The calculator will then tell you the median and 90th percentile amount of data collected by similar applications. These applications span the range of Application Insights configuration, so you can still use options such as [sampling]() to reduce the volume of data you ingest for your application below the median level. 

### Data collection when using sampling
With the ASP.NET SDK's [adaptive sampling](app/sampling.md#adaptive-sampling), the data volume is adjusted automatically to keep within a specified maximum rate of traffic for default Application Insights monitoring. If the application produces a low amount of telemetry, such as when debugging or due to low usage, items won't be dropped by the sampling processor as long as volume is below the configured events per second level. For a high volume application, with the default threshold of five events per second, adaptive sampling will limit the number of daily events to 432,000. Considering a typical average event size of 1 KB, this corresponds to 13.4 GB of telemetry per 31-day month per node hosting your application since the sampling is done local to each node.

For SDKs that don't support adaptive sampling, you can employ [ingestion sampling](app/sampling.md#ingestion-sampling), which samples when the data is received by Application Insights based on a percentage of data to retain, or [fixed-rate sampling for ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core, and Java websites](app/sampling.md#fixed-rate-sampling) to reduce the traffic sent from your web server and web browsers

## Container insights

The estimation below is based on an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster with the following sizing example. Also, the estimate applies only for metrics and inventory data collected. For container logs (stdout, stderr, and environmental variables), it varies based on the log sizes generated by the workload, and they are excluded from our estimation.

If you enabled monitoring of an AKS cluster configured as follows,

- Three nodes
- Two disks per node
- One network interface per node
- 20 pods (one container in each pod = 20 containers in total)
- Two Kubernetes namespaces
- Five Kubernetes services (includes kube-system pods, services, and namespace)
- Collection frequency = 60 secs (default)

You can see the tables and volume of data generated per hour in the assigned Log Analytics workspace. For more information about each of these tables, see [Azure Monitor Logs tables](../../aks/monitor-aks-reference.md#azure-monitor-logs-tables).

|Table | Size estimate (MB/hour) |
|------|---------------|
|Perf | 12.9 |
|InsightsMetrics | 11.3 |
|KubePodInventory | 1.5 |
|KubeNodeInventory | 0.75 |
|KubeServices | 0.13 |
|ContainerInventory | 3.6 |
|KubeHealth | 0.1 |
|KubeMonAgentEvents |0.005 |

Total = 31 MB/Hour = 23.1 GB/month (one month = 31 days)

Using the default [pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/) for Log Analytics, which is a Pay-As-You-Go model, you can estimate the Azure Monitor cost per month. After including a capacity reservation, the price would be higher per month depending on the reservation selected.



## Next steps

- See [Azure Monitor Logs pricing details](logs/cost-logs.md) for details on how charges are calculated for data in a Log Analytics workspace and different configuration options to reduce your charges.
- See [Analyze usage in Log Analytics workspace](logs/analyze-usage.md) for details on analyzing the data in your workspace to determine to source of any higher than expected usage and opportunities to reduce your amount of data collected.
- See [Azure Monitor best practices - Cost management](best-practices-cost.md) for best practices on configuring and managing Azure Monitor to minimize your charges.
