---
title: Monitoring Azure Monitor  
description: Learn about how Azure Monitor monitors itself
author: rboucher
ms.author: robb
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: azure-monitor
ms.custom: subject-monitoring
ms.date: 04/03/2022
---
---

<!-- VERSION 2.2-->

# Monitoring Azure Monitor

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation.

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Monitor. Azure Monitor uses [itself](/azure/azure-monitor/overview) to monitor certain parts of its own functionality. You can monitor:

- Autoscale operations
- Monitoring operations in the Audit log

 If you're unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource).

<!-- Optional diagram showing monitoring for your service. If you need help creating one, contact robb@microsoft.com -->

## Monitoring overview page in Azure portal
<!-- OPTIONAL. Please keep headings in this order -->
<!-- If you don't have an over page, remove this section. If you keep it, edit it if there are any unique charges if your service has significant monitoring beyond Azure Monitor. -->

The **Overview** page in the Azure portal for Azure Monitor shows links and tutorials on how to use Azure Monitor in general. It doesn't mention any of the specific resources discussed in this article.

## Monitoring data 

<!-- REQUIRED. Please keep headings in this order -->
Azure Monitor collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource#monitoring-data-from-Azure-resources). 

See [Monitoring *Azure Monitor* data reference](azure-monitor-monitoring-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs metrics created by Azure Monitor.

## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

Resource Logs aren't collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal, CLI, or PowerShell. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for *Azure Monitor* are listed in [Azure Monitor monitoring data reference](azure-monitor-monitoring-reference.md#resource-logs).

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics


You can analyze metrics for *Azure Monitor* with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started) for details on using this tool. 

For a list of the platform metrics collected for Azure Monitor, see [Azure Monitor monitoring data reference](azure-monitor-monitoring-reference.md#resource-logs).  

<!-- REQUIRED for services that use a Guest OS. That includes agent based services like Virtual Machines, Service Fabric, Cloud Services, and perhaps others. Delete the section otherwise -->
Guest OS metrics must be collected by agents running on the virtual machines hosting your service. <!-- Add additional information as appropriate -->. For more information, see [Overview of Azure Monitor agents](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/agents-overview)  

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported).

<!--  Optional: Call out additional information to help your customers. For example, you can include additional information here about how to use metrics explorer specifically for your service. Remember that the UI is subject to change quite often so you will need to maintain these screenshots yourself if you add them in. -->

## Analyzing logs

<!-- REQUIRED. Please keep headings in this order
If you don't support resource logs, say so. Some services may be only onboarded to metrics and the activity log. -->

Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema) The schema for [service name] resource logs is found in the [Azure Monitor Data Reference](azure-monitor-monitoring-reference.md#schemas) 

The [Activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log) is a type of platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.  

For a list of the types of resource logs collected for Azure Monitor, see [Monitoring Azure Monitor data reference](azure-monitor-monitoring-reference.md#resource-logs)  

For a list of the tables used by Azure Monitor Logs and queryable by Log Analytics, see [Monitoring Azure Monitor data reference](azure-monitor-monitoring-reference.md#azure-monitor-logs-tables)  

<!--  Optional: Call out additional information to help your customers. For example, you can include additional information here about log usage or what logs are most important. Remember that the UI is subject to change quite often so you will need to maintain these screenshots yourself if you add them in. -->

### Sample Kusto queries

These are now listed in the [Log Analytics user interface](./logs/queries.md).

## Alerts

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric-overview), [logs](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-unified-log), and the [activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/activity-log-alerts). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks.

For an in-depth discussion of using alerts with autoscale, see [Troubleshoot Azure autoscale](/azure/azure-monitor/autoscale/autoscale-troubleshoot)

## Next steps

- See [Monitoring Azure Monitor data reference](azure-monitor-monitoring-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure Monitor to monitor itself.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource) for details on monitoring Azure resources.