---
title: Release notes for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server - June 2024
description: Learn about the release notes for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server June 2024.
author: xboxeer
ms.author: yuzheng1
ms.reviewer: maghan
ms.date: 06/18/2024
ms.service: azure-database-mysql
ms.subservice: flexible-server
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Azure Database For MySQL - Flexible Server June 2024 maintenance

We're pleased to announce the June 2024 maintenance for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server. In this maintenance update, we're addressing some availability issues that have been impacting a subset of our servers. While most servers remain unaffected, a small portion experiences maintenance activities to enhance their performance and stability. We appreciate your understanding and patience as we work to improve our service.

## Engine version changes
No engine version upgrade in this maintenance

To check your engine version, run `SELECT VERSION();` command at the MySQL prompt

## Features
No new features are being introduced in this maintenance update.

## Improvement
- Allow customers to truncate performance_schema tables by invoking a predefined stored procedure.
- Improve the startup time for servers with large amount of tablespaces.
    
## Known Issues Fix
- Fixed the issue that MySQL engine may not receive the shutdown signal during scaling and maintenance, which may lead to long recovery time.
- Fixed the issue that if server with originalPrimaryName is deleted due to HA failover->disable HA action, earlier ATP update operation failed. 
- Fixed the issue that unhealthy servers/Burstable servers without credits will now throw ServerNotSucceeded instead of Internal Server Error
