articles/virtual-machines/image-version-encryption.md, before:

---
title: Preview - Create an image version encrypted with your own keys 
description: Create a an image version in a Shared Image Gallery, using customer-managed encryption keys.
author: cynthn
ms.service: virtual-machines
ms.subservice: imaging
ms.workload: infrastructure-services
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 10/12/2020
ms.author: cynthn
---

# Preview: Use customer-managed keys for encrypting images

Gallery images are stored as managed disks, so they are automatically encrypted using server-side encryption. Server-side encryption uses 256-bit [AES encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard), one of the strongest block ciphers available, and is FIPS 140-2 compliant. For more information about the cryptographic modules underlying Azure managed disks, see [Cryptography API: Next Generation](/windows/desktop/seccng/cng-portal)

You can rely on platform-managed keys for the encryption of your images, use your own keys, or you can use both together, for double encryption. If you choose to manage encryption with your own keys, you can specify a *customer-managed key* to use for encrypting and decrypting all disks in your images. 

Server-side encryption using customer-managed keys uses Azure Key Vault. You can either import [your RSA keys](../key-vault/keys/hsm-protected-keys.md) to your Key Vault or generate new RSA keys in Azure Key Vault.

## Prerequisites

This article requires that you already have a disk encryption set to use for your image.

- To use only a customer-managed key, see **Enable customer-managed keys with server-side encryption** using the [Azure portal](./disks-enable-customer-managed-keys-portal.md) or [PowerShell](./windows/disks-enable-customer-managed-keys-powershell.md#set-up-your-azure-key-vault-and-diskencryptionset).

- To use both platform-managed and customer-managed keys (for double encryption), see **Enable double encryption at rest** using the [Azure portal](./disks-enable-double-encryption-at-rest-portal.md) or [PowerShell](./windows/disks-enable-double-encryption-at-rest-powershell.md).
    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > You must use this link [https://aka.ms/diskencryptionupdates](https://aka.ms/diskencryptionupdates) to access the Azure portal. Double encryption at rest is not currently visible in the public Azure portal without using the link.

## Limitations

There are several limitations when using customer managed keys for encrypting shared image gallery images:	

- Encryption key sets must be in the same subscription as your image.

- Encryption key sets are regional resources so each region requires a different encryption key set.

- You cannot copy or share images that use customer managed keys. 

- Once you have used your own keys to encrypt a disk or image, you cannot go back to using platform-managed keys for encrypting those disks or images.


> [!IMPORTANT]
> Encryption using customer-managed keys is currently in public preview.
> This preview version is provided without a service level agreement, and it's not recommended for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities. 
> For more information, see [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).


## PowerShell

For the public preview, you first need to register the feature.

```azurepowershell-interactive
Register-AzProviderFeature -FeatureName SIGEncryption -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
```

It takes a few minutes for the registration to complete. Use Get-AzProviderFeature to check on the status of the feature registration.

```azurepowershell-interactive
Get-AzProviderFeature -FeatureName SIGEncryption -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
```

When RegistrationState returns Registered, you can move on to the next step.

Check your provider registration. Make sure it returns `Registered`.

```azurepowershell-interactive
Get-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute | Format-table -Property ResourceTypes,RegistrationState
```

If it doesn't return `Registered`, use the following to register the providers:

```azurepowershell-interactive
Register-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
```

To specify a disk encryption set to for an image version, use  [New-AzGalleryImageDefinition](/powershell/module/az.compute/new-azgalleryimageversion) with the `-TargetRegion` parameter. 

```azurepowershell-interactive

$sourceId = <ID of the image version source>

$osDiskImageEncryption = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myDESet'}

$dataDiskImageEncryption1 = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myDESet1';Lun=1}

$dataDiskImageEncryption2 = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myDESet2';Lun=2}

$dataDiskImageEncryptions = @($dataDiskImageEncryption1,$dataDiskImageEncryption2)

$encryption1 = @{OSDiskImage=$osDiskImageEncryption;DataDiskImages=$dataDiskImageEncryptions}

$region1 = @{Name='West US';ReplicaCount=1;StorageAccountType=Standard_LRS;Encryption=$encryption1}

$eastUS2osDiskImageEncryption = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myEastUS2DESet'}

$eastUS2dataDiskImageEncryption1 = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myEastUS2DESet1';Lun=1}

$eastUS2dataDiskImageEncryption2 = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myEastUS2DESet2';Lun=2}

$eastUS2DataDiskImageEncryptions = @($eastUS2dataDiskImageEncryption1,$eastUS2dataDiskImageEncryption2)

$encryption2 = @{OSDiskImage=$eastUS2osDiskImageEncryption;DataDiskImages=$eastUS2DataDiskImageEncryptions}

$region2 = @{Name='East US 2';ReplicaCount=1;StorageAccountType=Standard_LRS;Encryption=$encryption2}

$targetRegion = @($region1, $region2)


# Create the image
New-AzGalleryImageVersion `
   -ResourceGroupName $rgname `
   -GalleryName $galleryName `
   -GalleryImageDefinitionName $imageDefinitionName `
   -Name $versionName -Location $location `
   -SourceImageId $sourceId `
   -ReplicaCount 2 `
   -StorageAccountType Standard_LRS `
   -PublishingProfileEndOfLifeDate '2020-12-01' `
   -TargetRegion $targetRegion
```

### Create a VM

You can create a VM from a shared image gallery and use customer-managed keys to encrypt the disks. The syntax is the same as creating a [generalized](vm-generalized-image-version-powershell.md) or [specialized](vm-specialized-image-version-powershell.md) VM from an image, you need to use the extended parameter set and add `Set-AzVMOSDisk -Name $($vmName +"_OSDisk") -DiskEncryptionSetId $diskEncryptionSet.Id -CreateOption FromImage` to the VM configuration.

For data disks, You need to add  the `-DiskEncryptionSetId $setID` parameter when you use [Add-AzVMDataDisk](/powershell/module/az.compute/add-azvmdatadisk).


## CLI 

For the public preview, you first need to register the feature.

```azurecli-interactive
az feature register --namespace Microsoft.Compute --name SIGEncryption
```

Check the status of the feature registration.

```azurecli-interactive
az feature show --namespace Microsoft.Compute --name SIGEncryption | grep state
```

When this returns `"state": "Registered"`, you can move on to the next step.

Check your registration.

```azurecli-interactive
az provider show -n Microsoft.Compute | grep registrationState
```

If it doesn't say registered, run the following:

```azurecli-interactive
az provider register -n Microsoft.Compute
```


To specify a disk encryption set to for an image version, use  [az image gallery create-image-version](/cli/azure/sig/image-version#az-sig-image-version-create) with the `--target-region-encryption` parameter. The format for `--target-region-encryption` is a comma-separated list of keys for encrypting the OS and data disks. It should look like this: `<encryption set for the OS disk>,<Lun number of the data disk>,<encryption set for the data disk>,<Lun number for the second data disk>,<encryption set for the second data disk>`. 

If the source for the OS disk is a managed disk or a VM, use `--managed-image` to specify the source for the image version. In this example, the source is a managed image that has an OS disk as well as a data disk at LUN 0. The OS disk will be encrypted with DiskEncryptionSet1 and the data disk will be encrypted with DiskEncryptionSet2.

```azurecli-interactive
az sig image-version create \
   -g MyResourceGroup \
   --gallery-image-version 1.0.0 \
   --location westus \
   --target-regions westus=2=standard_lrs eastus2 \
   --target-region-encryption WestUSDiskEncryptionSet1,0,WestUSDiskEncryptionSet2 EastUS2DiskEncryptionSet1,0,EastUS2DiskEncryptionSet2 \
   --gallery-name MyGallery \
   --gallery-image-definition MyImage \
   --managed-image "/subscriptions/<subscription ID>/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Compute/images/myImage"
```

If the source for the OS disk is a snapshot, use `--os-snapshot` to specify the OS disk. If there are data disk snapshots that should also be part of the image version, add those using `--data-snapshot-luns` to specify the LUN, and `--data-snapshots` to specify the snapshots.

In this example, the sources are disk snapshots. There is an OS disk, and also a data disk at LUN 0. The OS disk will be encrypted with DiskEncryptionSet1 and the data disk will be encrypted with DiskEncryptionSet2.

```azurecli-interactive
az sig image-version create \
   -g MyResourceGroup \
   --gallery-image-version 1.0.0 \
   --location westus\
   --target-regions westus=2=standard_lrs eastus\
   --target-region-encryption WestUSDiskEncryptionSet1,0,WestUSDiskEncryptionSet2 EastUS2DiskEncryptionSet1,0,EastUS2DiskEncryptionSet2 \
   --os-snapshot "/subscriptions/<subscription ID>/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Compute/snapshots/myOSSnapshot" \
   --data-snapshot-luns 0 \
   --data-snapshots "/subscriptions/<subscription ID>/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Compute/snapshots/myDDSnapshot" \
   --gallery-name MyGallery \
   --gallery-image-definition MyImage 
   
```

### Create the VM

You can create a VM from a shared image gallery and use customer-managed keys to encrypt the disks. The syntax is the same as creating a [generalized](vm-generalized-image-version-cli.md) or [specialized](vm-specialized-image-version-cli.md) VM from an image, you just need to add the `--os-disk-encryption-set` parameter with the ID of the encryption set. For data disks, add `--data-disk-encryption-sets` with a space delimited list of the disk encryption sets for the data disks.


## Portal

When you create your image version in the portal, you can use the **Encryption** tab to enter apply your storage encryption sets.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To use double encryption, you must use this link [https://aka.ms/diskencryptionupdates](https://aka.ms/diskencryptionupdates) to access the Azure portal. Double encryption at rest is not currently visible in the public Azure portal without using the link.


1. In the **Create an image version** page, select the **Encryption** tab.
2. In **Encryption type**, select **Encryption at-rest with a customer-managed key** or **Double encryption with platform-managed and customer-managed keys**. 
3. For each disk in the image, select the **Disk encryption set** to use from the drop-down. 

### Create the VM

You can create a VM from an image version and use customer-managed keys to encrypt the disks. When you create the VM in the portal, on the **Disks** tab, select **Encryption at-rest with customer-managed keys** or **Double encryption with platform-managed and customer-managed keys** for the **Encryption type**. You can then select the encryption set from the drop-down.

## Next steps

Learn more about [server-side disk encryption](./windows/disk-encryption.md).

For information about how to supply purchase plan information, see [Supply Azure Marketplace purchase plan information when creating images](marketplace-images.md).

Commit message:

added language for disk encryption sets per region

articles/virtual-machines/image-version-encryption.md, after:

---
title: Preview - Create an image version encrypted with your own keys 
description: Create a an image version in a Shared Image Gallery, using customer-managed encryption keys.
author: cynthn
ms.service: virtual-machines
ms.subservice: imaging
ms.workload: infrastructure-services
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 11/3/2020
ms.author: cynthn
---

# Preview: Use customer-managed keys for encrypting images

Gallery images are stored as managed disks, so they are automatically encrypted using server-side encryption. Server-side encryption uses 256-bit [AES encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard), one of the strongest block ciphers available, and is FIPS 140-2 compliant. For more information about the cryptographic modules underlying Azure managed disks, see [Cryptography API: Next Generation](/windows/desktop/seccng/cng-portal)

You can rely on platform-managed keys for the encryption of your images, use your own keys, or you can use both together, for double encryption. If you choose to manage encryption with your own keys, you can specify a *customer-managed key* to use for encrypting and decrypting all disks in your images. 

Server-side encryption using customer-managed keys uses Azure Key Vault. You can either import [your RSA keys](../key-vault/keys/hsm-protected-keys.md) to your Key Vault or generate new RSA keys in Azure Key Vault.

## Prerequisites

This article requires that you already have a disk encryption set in each region that you want to replicate your image to.

- To use only a customer-managed key, see **Enable customer-managed keys with server-side encryption** using the [Azure portal](./disks-enable-customer-managed-keys-portal.md) or [PowerShell](./windows/disks-enable-customer-managed-keys-powershell.md#set-up-your-azure-key-vault-and-diskencryptionset).

- To use both platform-managed and customer-managed keys (for double encryption), see **Enable double encryption at rest** using the [Azure portal](./disks-enable-double-encryption-at-rest-portal.md) or [PowerShell](./windows/disks-enable-double-encryption-at-rest-powershell.md).
    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > You must use this link [https://aka.ms/diskencryptionupdates](https://aka.ms/diskencryptionupdates) to access the Azure portal. Double encryption at rest is not currently visible in the public Azure portal without using the link.

## Limitations

There are several limitations when using customer managed keys for encrypting shared image gallery images:	

- Encryption key sets must be in the same subscription as your image.

- Encryption key sets are regional resources so each region requires a different encryption key set.

- You cannot copy or share images that use customer managed keys. 

- Once you have used your own keys to encrypt a disk or image, you cannot go back to using platform-managed keys for encrypting those disks or images.


> [!IMPORTANT]
> Encryption using customer-managed keys is currently in public preview.
> This preview version is provided without a service level agreement, and it's not recommended for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities. 
> For more information, see [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).


## PowerShell

For the public preview, you first need to register the feature.

```azurepowershell-interactive
Register-AzProviderFeature -FeatureName SIGEncryption -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
```

It takes a few minutes for the registration to complete. Use Get-AzProviderFeature to check on the status of the feature registration.

```azurepowershell-interactive
Get-AzProviderFeature -FeatureName SIGEncryption -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
```

When RegistrationState returns Registered, you can move on to the next step.

Check your provider registration. Make sure it returns `Registered`.

```azurepowershell-interactive
Get-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute | Format-table -Property ResourceTypes,RegistrationState
```

If it doesn't return `Registered`, use the following to register the providers:

```azurepowershell-interactive
Register-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
```

To specify a disk encryption set to for an image version, use  [New-AzGalleryImageDefinition](/powershell/module/az.compute/new-azgalleryimageversion) with the `-TargetRegion` parameter. 

```azurepowershell-interactive

$sourceId = <ID of the image version source>

$osDiskImageEncryption = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myDESet'}

$dataDiskImageEncryption1 = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myDESet1';Lun=1}

$dataDiskImageEncryption2 = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myDESet2';Lun=2}

$dataDiskImageEncryptions = @($dataDiskImageEncryption1,$dataDiskImageEncryption2)

$encryption1 = @{OSDiskImage=$osDiskImageEncryption;DataDiskImages=$dataDiskImageEncryptions}

$region1 = @{Name='West US';ReplicaCount=1;StorageAccountType=Standard_LRS;Encryption=$encryption1}

$eastUS2osDiskImageEncryption = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myEastUS2DESet'}

$eastUS2dataDiskImageEncryption1 = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myEastUS2DESet1';Lun=1}

$eastUS2dataDiskImageEncryption2 = @{DiskEncryptionSetId='subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myRG/providers/Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/myEastUS2DESet2';Lun=2}

$eastUS2DataDiskImageEncryptions = @($eastUS2dataDiskImageEncryption1,$eastUS2dataDiskImageEncryption2)

$encryption2 = @{OSDiskImage=$eastUS2osDiskImageEncryption;DataDiskImages=$eastUS2DataDiskImageEncryptions}

$region2 = @{Name='East US 2';ReplicaCount=1;StorageAccountType=Standard_LRS;Encryption=$encryption2}

$targetRegion = @($region1, $region2)


# Create the image
New-AzGalleryImageVersion `
   -ResourceGroupName $rgname `
   -GalleryName $galleryName `
   -GalleryImageDefinitionName $imageDefinitionName `
   -Name $versionName -Location $location `
   -SourceImageId $sourceId `
   -ReplicaCount 2 `
   -StorageAccountType Standard_LRS `
   -PublishingProfileEndOfLifeDate '2020-12-01' `
   -TargetRegion $targetRegion
```

### Create a VM

You can create a VM from a shared image gallery and use customer-managed keys to encrypt the disks. The syntax is the same as creating a [generalized](vm-generalized-image-version-powershell.md) or [specialized](vm-specialized-image-version-powershell.md) VM from an image, you need to use the extended parameter set and add `Set-AzVMOSDisk -Name $($vmName +"_OSDisk") -DiskEncryptionSetId $diskEncryptionSet.Id -CreateOption FromImage` to the VM configuration.

For data disks, You need to add  the `-DiskEncryptionSetId $setID` parameter when you use [Add-AzVMDataDisk](/powershell/module/az.compute/add-azvmdatadisk).


## CLI 

For the public preview, you first need to register the feature.

```azurecli-interactive
az feature register --namespace Microsoft.Compute --name SIGEncryption
```

Check the status of the feature registration.

```azurecli-interactive
az feature show --namespace Microsoft.Compute --name SIGEncryption | grep state
```

When this returns `"state": "Registered"`, you can move on to the next step.

Check your registration.

```azurecli-interactive
az provider show -n Microsoft.Compute | grep registrationState
```

If it doesn't say registered, run the following:

```azurecli-interactive
az provider register -n Microsoft.Compute
```


To specify a disk encryption set to for an image version, use  [az image gallery create-image-version](/cli/azure/sig/image-version#az-sig-image-version-create) with the `--target-region-encryption` parameter. The format for `--target-region-encryption` is a comma-separated list of keys for encrypting the OS and data disks. It should look like this: `<encryption set for the OS disk>,<Lun number of the data disk>,<encryption set for the data disk>,<Lun number for the second data disk>,<encryption set for the second data disk>`. 

If the source for the OS disk is a managed disk or a VM, use `--managed-image` to specify the source for the image version. In this example, the source is a managed image that has an OS disk as well as a data disk at LUN 0. The OS disk will be encrypted with DiskEncryptionSet1 and the data disk will be encrypted with DiskEncryptionSet2.

```azurecli-interactive
az sig image-version create \
   -g MyResourceGroup \
   --gallery-image-version 1.0.0 \
   --location westus \
   --target-regions westus=2=standard_lrs eastus2 \
   --target-region-encryption WestUSDiskEncryptionSet1,0,WestUSDiskEncryptionSet2 EastUS2DiskEncryptionSet1,0,EastUS2DiskEncryptionSet2 \
   --gallery-name MyGallery \
   --gallery-image-definition MyImage \
   --managed-image "/subscriptions/<subscription ID>/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Compute/images/myImage"
```

If the source for the OS disk is a snapshot, use `--os-snapshot` to specify the OS disk. If there are data disk snapshots that should also be part of the image version, add those using `--data-snapshot-luns` to specify the LUN, and `--data-snapshots` to specify the snapshots.

In this example, the sources are disk snapshots. There is an OS disk, and also a data disk at LUN 0. The OS disk will be encrypted with DiskEncryptionSet1 and the data disk will be encrypted with DiskEncryptionSet2.

```azurecli-interactive
az sig image-version create \
   -g MyResourceGroup \
   --gallery-image-version 1.0.0 \
   --location westus\
   --target-regions westus=2=standard_lrs eastus\
   --target-region-encryption WestUSDiskEncryptionSet1,0,WestUSDiskEncryptionSet2 EastUS2DiskEncryptionSet1,0,EastUS2DiskEncryptionSet2 \
   --os-snapshot "/subscriptions/<subscription ID>/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Compute/snapshots/myOSSnapshot" \
   --data-snapshot-luns 0 \
   --data-snapshots "/subscriptions/<subscription ID>/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Compute/snapshots/myDDSnapshot" \
   --gallery-name MyGallery \
   --gallery-image-definition MyImage 
   
```

### Create the VM

You can create a VM from a shared image gallery and use customer-managed keys to encrypt the disks. The syntax is the same as creating a [generalized](vm-generalized-image-version-cli.md) or [specialized](vm-specialized-image-version-cli.md) VM from an image, you just need to add the `--os-disk-encryption-set` parameter with the ID of the encryption set. For data disks, add `--data-disk-encryption-sets` with a space delimited list of the disk encryption sets for the data disks.


## Portal

When you create your image version in the portal, you can use the **Encryption** tab to enter apply your storage encryption sets.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To use double encryption, you must use this link [https://aka.ms/diskencryptionupdates](https://aka.ms/diskencryptionupdates) to access the Azure portal. Double encryption at rest is not currently visible in the public Azure portal without using the link.


1. In the **Create an image version** page, select the **Encryption** tab.
2. In **Encryption type**, select **Encryption at-rest with a customer-managed key** or **Double encryption with platform-managed and customer-managed keys**. 
3. For each disk in the image, select the **Disk encryption set** to use from the drop-down. 

### Create the VM

You can create a VM from an image version and use customer-managed keys to encrypt the disks. When you create the VM in the portal, on the **Disks** tab, select **Encryption at-rest with customer-managed keys** or **Double encryption with platform-managed and customer-managed keys** for the **Encryption type**. You can then select the encryption set from the drop-down.

## Next steps

Learn more about [server-side disk encryption](./windows/disk-encryption.md).

For information about how to supply purchase plan information, see [Supply Azure Marketplace purchase plan information when creating images](marketplace-images.md).
