articles/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-linux-quick-create-cli.md, before:

<properties
   pageTitle="Create a Linux VM on Azure using the CLI | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Create a Linux VM on Azure using the CLI."
   services="virtual-machines-linux"
   documentationCenter=""
   authors="vlivech"
   manager="timlt"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="virtual-machines-linux"
   ms.devlang="NA"
   ms.topic="hero-article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="vm-linux"
   ms.workload="infrastructure"
   ms.date="05/03/2016"
   ms.author="v-livech"/>


# Create a Linux VM on Azure using the CLI

This article shows how to quickly deploy a Linux Virtual Machine on Azure using the Azure CLI's `azure vm quick-create` command. The `quick-create` command deploys a VM with a basic infrastructure surrounding it that you can use to prototype or test a concept very rapidly. Think of it as the quickest way to a Linux bash shell.  The article requires an Azure account ([get a free trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/)), and [the Azure CLI](../xplat-cli-install.md) logged in (`azure login`) and in resource manager mode (`azure config mode arm`).  You can also quickly deploy a Linux VM using the [Azure Portal](virtual-machines-linux-quick-create-portal.md).

## Quick Command Summary

One command to deploy a CoreOS VM and attach your SSH key

```bash
azure vm quick-create -M ~/.ssh/azure_id_rsa.pub -Q CoreOS
```

## Deploy the Linux VM

Using the same command from above we will show each prompt along with the output you should expect to see.  

For the ImageURN we will use `canonical:ubuntuserver:14.04.2-LTS:latest` to deploy a Ubuntu 14.04 VM. (To locate an image in the marketplace, [search for an image](virtual-machines-linux-cli-ps-findimage.md) or you can [upload your own custom image](virtual-machines-linux-create-upload-generic.md)).

In the following command walk through, please replace the prompts with values from your own environment, we are using "example" values.  The output should look like the following output block.  

Follow the prompts and enter your own names

```bash
azure vm quick-create -M ~/.ssh/azure_id_rsa.pub
```

Output

```bash
info:    Executing command vm quick-create
Resource group name: exampleRGname
Virtual machine name: exampleVMname
Location name: westus
Operating system Type [Windows, Linux]: Linux
ImageURN (in the format of "publisherName:offer:skus:version") or a VHD link to the user image: Canonical:UbuntuServer:14.04.4-LTS:latest
User name: ahmet
Password: ************************************************
Confirm password: ************************************************
+ Looking up the VM "exampleVMname"
info:    Verifying the public key SSH file: /home/ahmet/.ssh/azure_id_rsa.pub
info:    Using the VM Size "Standard_D1"
info:    The [OS, Data] Disk or image configuration requires storage account
+ Looking up the storage account cli38948918364134011018
info:    Could not find the storage account "cli38948918364134011018", trying to create new one
+ Creating storage account "cli38948918364134011018" in "westus"
+ Looking up the storage account cli38948918364134011018
+ Looking up the NIC "examp-westu-3894891836-nic"
info:    An nic with given name "examp-westu-3894891836-nic" not found, creating a new one
+ Looking up the virtual network "examp-westu-3894891836-vnet"
info:    Preparing to create new virtual network and subnet
| Creating a new virtual network "examp-westu-3894891836-vnet" [address prefix: "10.0.0.0/16"] with subnet "examp-westu-3894891836-snet" [address prefix: "10.+.1.0/24"]
+ Looking up the virtual network "examp-westu-3894891836-vnet"
+ Looking up the subnet "examp-westu-3894891836-snet" under the virtual network "examp-westu-3894891836-vnet"
info:    Found public ip parameters, trying to setup PublicIP profile
+ Looking up the public ip "examp-westu-3894891836-pip"
info:    PublicIP with given name "examp-westu-3894891836-pip" not found, creating a new one
+ Creating public ip "examp-westu-3894891836-pip"
+ Looking up the public ip "examp-westu-3894891836-pip"
+ Creating NIC "examp-westu-3894891836-nic"
+ Looking up the NIC "examp-westu-3894891836-nic"
+ Creating VM "exampleVMname"
+ Looking up the VM "exampleVMname"
+ Looking up the NIC "examp-westu-3894891836-nic"
+ Looking up the public ip "examp-westu-3894891836-pip"
data:    Id                              :/subscriptions/<**subscriptionsID**>/resourceGroups/exampleRGname/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/exampleVMname
data:    ProvisioningState               :Succeeded
data:    Name                            :exampleVMname
data:    Location                        :westus
data:    Type                            :Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
data:
data:    Hardware Profile:
data:      Size                          :Standard_D1
data:
data:    Storage Profile:
data:      Image reference:
data:        Publisher                   :Canonical
data:        Offer                       :UbuntuServer
data:        Sku                         :14.04.4-LTS
data:        Version                     :latest
data:
data:      OS Disk:
data:        OSType                      :Linux
data:        Name                        :clife36db80ae0539d2-os-1460152163612
data:        Caching                     :ReadWrite
data:        CreateOption                :FromImage
data:        Vhd:
data:          Uri                       :https://<**subscriptionsID**>.blob.core.windows.net/vhds/clife36db80ae0539d2-os-1460152163612.vhd
data:
data:    OS Profile:
data:      Computer Name                 :exampleVMname
data:      User Name                     :ahmet
data:      Linux Configuration:
data:        Disable Password Auth       :false
data:
data:    Network Profile:
data:      Network Interfaces:
data:        Network Interface #1:
data:          Primary                   :true
data:          MAC Address               :00-0D-3A-33-4C-B2
data:          Provisioning State        :Succeeded
data:          Name                      :examp-westu-3894891836-nic
data:          Location                  :westus
data:            Public IP address       :13.88.22.244
data:            FQDN                    :examp-westu-3894891836-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com
data:
data:    Diagnostics Profile:
data:      BootDiagnostics Enabled       :true
data:      BootDiagnostics StorageUri    :https://<**subscriptionsID**>.blob.core.windows.net/
data:
data:      Diagnostics Instance View:
info:    vm quick-create command OK
```

You can now SSH into your VM on the default SSH port 22 and the Public IP address (or the fully qualified domain name -- FQDN) listed in the output above.

```
ssh -i ~/.ssh/azure_id_rsa ubuntu@13.88.22.244
```

## Next Steps

The `azure vm quick-create` is the way to quickly deploy a VM so you can log in  to a bash shell and get working. Using `vm quick-create` does not give you the additional benefits of a complex environment.  To deploy a Linux VM customized for your infrastructure you can follow any of the articles below.

- [Use an Azure resource manager template to create a specific deployment](virtual-machines-linux-cli-deploy-templates.md)
- [Create your own custom environment for a Linux VM using Azure CLI commands directly](virtual-machines-linux-cli-deploy-templates.md).
- [Create a Linux VM on Azure using Templates](virtual-machines-linux-cli-deploy-templates.md)
- [Create a SSH Secured Linux VM on Azure using Templates](virtual-machines-linux-create-ssh-secured-vm-from-template.md)
- [Create a Linux VM using the Azure CLI](virtual-machines-linux-create-cli-complete.md)

Those articles will get you started in building an Azure infrastructure as well as any number of proprietary and open-source infrastructure deployment, configuration, and orchestration tools.

Commit message:

added os table - cleaned up verbage around it

articles/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-linux-quick-create-cli.md, after:

<properties
   pageTitle="Create a Linux VM on Azure using the CLI | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Create a Linux VM on Azure using the CLI."
   services="virtual-machines-linux"
   documentationCenter=""
   authors="vlivech"
   manager="timlt"
   editor=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="virtual-machines-linux"
   ms.devlang="NA"
   ms.topic="hero-article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="vm-linux"
   ms.workload="infrastructure"
   ms.date="05/03/2016"
   ms.author="v-livech"/>


# Create a Linux VM on Azure using the CLI

This article shows how to quickly deploy a Linux Virtual Machine on Azure using the Azure CLI's `azure vm quick-create` command. The `quick-create` command deploys a VM with a basic infrastructure surrounding it that you can use to prototype or test a concept very rapidly. Think of it as the quickest way to a Linux bash shell.  The article requires an Azure account ([get a free trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/free-trial/)), and [the Azure CLI](../xplat-cli-install.md) logged in (`azure login`) and in resource manager mode (`azure config mode arm`).  You can also quickly deploy a Linux VM using the [Azure Portal](virtual-machines-linux-quick-create-portal.md).

## Quick Command Summary

One command to deploy a CoreOS VM and attach your SSH key

```bash
azure vm quick-create -M ~/.ssh/azure_id_rsa.pub -Q CoreOS
```

## Deploy the Linux VM

Using the same command from above we will show each prompt along with the output you should expect to see.  

## ImageURN Aliases

The Azure CLI `quick-create` command has aliases mapped to the most common OS distributions.  Using this table to find the distribution you want to deploy with `quick-create`.

| Alias     | Publisher | Offer        | SKU         | Version |
|-----------|-----------|--------------|-------------|---------|
| CentOS    | OpenLogic | Centos       | 7.2         | latest  |
| CoreOS    | CoreOS    | CoreOS       | Stable      | latest  |
| Debian    | credativ  | Debian       | 8           | latest  |
| openSUSE  | SUSE      | openSUSE     | 13.2        | latest  |
| RHEL      | Redhat    | RHEL         | 7.2         | latest  |
| SLES      | SLES      | SLES         | 12-SP1      | latest  |
| UbuntuLTS | Canonical | UbuntuServer | 14.04.4-LTS | latest  |


For the ImageURN we will use  `UbuntuLTS` to deploy a Ubuntu 14.04.4-LTS VM. These 7 aliases represent a tiny portion of the available OS on Azure.  To locate an image in the marketplace, [search for an image](virtual-machines-linux-cli-ps-findimage.md) or you can [upload your own custom image](virtual-machines-linux-create-upload-generic.md)).

In the following command walk through, please replace the prompts with values from your own environment, we are using "example" values.  

Follow the prompts and enter your own names

```bash
azure vm quick-create -M ~/.ssh/azure_id_rsa.pub -Q UbuntuLTS
```

The output should look like the following output block.

```bash
info:    Executing command vm quick-create
Resource group name: exampleRGname
Virtual machine name: exampleVMname
Location name: westus
Operating system Type [Windows, Linux]: Linux
ImageURN (in the format of "publisherName:offer:skus:version") or a VHD link to the user image: Canonical:UbuntuServer:14.04.4-LTS:latest
User name: ahmet
Password: ************************************************
Confirm password: ************************************************
+ Looking up the VM "exampleVMname"
info:    Verifying the public key SSH file: /home/ahmet/.ssh/azure_id_rsa.pub
info:    Using the VM Size "Standard_D1"
info:    The [OS, Data] Disk or image configuration requires storage account
+ Looking up the storage account cli38948918364134011018
info:    Could not find the storage account "cli38948918364134011018", trying to create new one
+ Creating storage account "cli38948918364134011018" in "westus"
+ Looking up the storage account cli38948918364134011018
+ Looking up the NIC "examp-westu-3894891836-nic"
info:    An nic with given name "examp-westu-3894891836-nic" not found, creating a new one
+ Looking up the virtual network "examp-westu-3894891836-vnet"
info:    Preparing to create new virtual network and subnet
| Creating a new virtual network "examp-westu-3894891836-vnet" [address prefix: "10.0.0.0/16"] with subnet "examp-westu-3894891836-snet" [address prefix: "10.+.1.0/24"]
+ Looking up the virtual network "examp-westu-3894891836-vnet"
+ Looking up the subnet "examp-westu-3894891836-snet" under the virtual network "examp-westu-3894891836-vnet"
info:    Found public ip parameters, trying to setup PublicIP profile
+ Looking up the public ip "examp-westu-3894891836-pip"
info:    PublicIP with given name "examp-westu-3894891836-pip" not found, creating a new one
+ Creating public ip "examp-westu-3894891836-pip"
+ Looking up the public ip "examp-westu-3894891836-pip"
+ Creating NIC "examp-westu-3894891836-nic"
+ Looking up the NIC "examp-westu-3894891836-nic"
+ Creating VM "exampleVMname"
+ Looking up the VM "exampleVMname"
+ Looking up the NIC "examp-westu-3894891836-nic"
+ Looking up the public ip "examp-westu-3894891836-pip"
data:    Id                              :/subscriptions/<**subscriptionsID**>/resourceGroups/exampleRGname/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/exampleVMname
data:    ProvisioningState               :Succeeded
data:    Name                            :exampleVMname
data:    Location                        :westus
data:    Type                            :Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
data:
data:    Hardware Profile:
data:      Size                          :Standard_D1
data:
data:    Storage Profile:
data:      Image reference:
data:        Publisher                   :Canonical
data:        Offer                       :UbuntuServer
data:        Sku                         :14.04.4-LTS
data:        Version                     :latest
data:
data:      OS Disk:
data:        OSType                      :Linux
data:        Name                        :clife36db80ae0539d2-os-1460152163612
data:        Caching                     :ReadWrite
data:        CreateOption                :FromImage
data:        Vhd:
data:          Uri                       :https://<**subscriptionsID**>.blob.core.windows.net/vhds/clife36db80ae0539d2-os-1460152163612.vhd
data:
data:    OS Profile:
data:      Computer Name                 :exampleVMname
data:      User Name                     :ahmet
data:      Linux Configuration:
data:        Disable Password Auth       :false
data:
data:    Network Profile:
data:      Network Interfaces:
data:        Network Interface #1:
data:          Primary                   :true
data:          MAC Address               :00-0D-3A-33-4C-B2
data:          Provisioning State        :Succeeded
data:          Name                      :examp-westu-3894891836-nic
data:          Location                  :westus
data:            Public IP address       :13.88.22.244
data:            FQDN                    :examp-westu-3894891836-pip.westus.cloudapp.azure.com
data:
data:    Diagnostics Profile:
data:      BootDiagnostics Enabled       :true
data:      BootDiagnostics StorageUri    :https://<**subscriptionsID**>.blob.core.windows.net/
data:
data:      Diagnostics Instance View:
info:    vm quick-create command OK
```

You can now SSH into your VM on the default SSH port 22 and the Public IP address (or the fully qualified domain name -- FQDN) listed in the output above.

```
ssh -i ~/.ssh/azure_id_rsa ubuntu@13.88.22.244
```

## Next Steps

The `azure vm quick-create` is the way to quickly deploy a VM so you can log in  to a bash shell and get working. Using `vm quick-create` does not give you the additional benefits of a complex environment.  To deploy a Linux VM customized for your infrastructure you can follow any of the articles below.

- [Use an Azure resource manager template to create a specific deployment](virtual-machines-linux-cli-deploy-templates.md)
- [Create your own custom environment for a Linux VM using Azure CLI commands directly](virtual-machines-linux-cli-deploy-templates.md).
- [Create a Linux VM on Azure using Templates](virtual-machines-linux-cli-deploy-templates.md)
- [Create a SSH Secured Linux VM on Azure using Templates](virtual-machines-linux-create-ssh-secured-vm-from-template.md)
- [Create a Linux VM using the Azure CLI](virtual-machines-linux-create-cli-complete.md)

Those articles will get you started in building an Azure infrastructure as well as any number of proprietary and open-source infrastructure deployment, configuration, and orchestration tools.
