<properties 
	pageTitle="Manage a SQL Database with SSMS | Microsoft Azure" 
	description="Learn how to use SQL Server Management Studio to manage SQL Database servers and databases." 
	services="sql-database" 
	documentationCenter=".net" 
	authors="jeffgoll" 
	manager="jeffreyg" 
	editor="tysonn"/>

<tags 
	ms.service="sql-database" 
	ms.workload="data-management" 
	ms.tgt_pltfrm="na" 
	ms.devlang="na" 
	ms.topic="article" 
	ms.date="07/07/2015" 
	ms.author="jeffreyg"/>


# Managing Azure SQL Database using SQL Server Management Studio 

You can use SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) to administer Azure SQL Database logical servers and databases. This topic walks you through common tasks with SSMS. You should already have a logical server and database created in Azure SQL Database before you begin. To get started, read [Create your first Azure SQL Database](sql-database-get-started.md) and then come back.

It's recommended that you use the latest version of SSMS whenever you work with Azure SQL Database. Visit [Download SQL Server Management Studio](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/mt238290.aspx) to get it. 


## Connect to a SQL Database logical server

Connecting to SQL Database requires that you know the server name on Azure. You might need to sign in to the portal to get this information.

1.  Sign in to the [Azure Management Portal](http://manage.windowsazure.com).

2.  In the left pane, click **SQL Databases**.

3.  On the SQL Databases home page, click **SERVERS** at the top of the page to list all of the servers associated with your subscription. Find the name of the server to which you want to connect and copy it to the clipboard.

	Next, configure your SQL Database firewall to
allow connections from your local machine. You do this by adding your local machines IP address to the firewall exception list.

1.  On SQL Databases home page, click **SERVERS** and then click the server to which you want to connect.

2.  Click **Configure** at the top of the page.

3.  Copy the IP address in CURRENT CLIENT IP ADDRESS.

4.  In the Configure page, **Allowed IP Addresses** includes three boxes where you can specify a rule name and a range of IP addresses as starting and ending values. For a rule name, you might enter the name of your computer. For the start and end range, paste in the IP address of your computer into both boxes, and then click the checkbox that appears.

	The rule name must be unique. If this is your development computer, you can enter the IP address in both the IP range start box and the IP range end box. Otherwise, you might need to enter a broader range of IP addresses to accommodate connections from additional computers in your organization.
 
5. Click **SAVE** at the bottom of the page.

    **Note:** There can be up as much as a five-minute delay for changes
    to the firewall settings to take effect.

	You are now ready to connect to SQL Database using Management Studio.

1.  On the taskbar, click **Start**, point to **All Programs**, point to
    **Microsoft SQL Server 2014**, and then click **SQL Server
    Management Studio**.

2.  In **Connect to Server**, specify the fully-qualified
    server name  as *serverName*.database.windows.net. On Azure, the server name is an autogenerated string composed of alphanumeric characters.

3.  Select **SQL Server Authentication**.

4.  In the **Login** box, enter the SQL Server administrator login that you
    specified in the portal when you created  your server.

5.  In the **Password** box, enter the password that you specified in
    the portal when you created  your server.

8.  Click **Connect** to establish the connection.

SQL Server 2014 SSMS with the latest updates offers expanded support for tasks like
creating and modifying Azure SQL databases. In addition, you can also use
Transact-SQL statements to accomplish these tasks. The steps below
provide examples of these statements. For more information about using
Transact-SQL with SQL Database, including details about which commands are
supported, see [Transact-SQL Reference (SQL Database)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/bb510741.aspx).

## Create and manage Azure SQL databases

While connected to the **master** database, you can create new
databases on the server and modify or drop existing databases. The steps
below describe how to accomplish several common database management
tasks through Management Studio. To perform these tasks, make sure you are connected to the
**master** database with the server-level principal login that you
created when you set up your server.

To open a query window in Management Studio, open the Databases folder, expand the **System Databases** folder, right-click on **master**, and then click **New Query**.

-   Use the **CREATE DATABASE** statement to create a new database. For
    more information, see [CREATE DATABASE (SQL Database)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn268335.aspx). The statement below creates a new database named **myTestDB** and specifies that it is a Standard S0 Edition database with a default maximum size of 250GB.

        CREATE DATABASE myTestDB
        (EDITION='Standard',
         SERVICE_OBJECTIVE='S0');

Click **Execute** to run the query.

-   Use the **ALTER DATABASE** statement to modify an existing database,
    for example if you want to change the name and edition
    of the database. For more information, see [ALTER DATABASE (SQL Database)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms174269.aspx). The
    statement below modifies the database you created in the previous
    step to change edition to Standard S1.

        ALTER DATABASE myTestDB
        MODIFY
        (SERVICE_OBJECTIVE='S1');

-   Use **the DROP DATABASE** Statement to delete an existing database.
    For more information, see [DROP DATABASE (SQL Database)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms178613.aspx). The statement below deletes the **myTestDB** database, but don't drop it now because you will use it create logins in the next step.

        DROP DATABASE myTestBase;

-   The master database has the **sys.databases** view that you can use
    to view details about all databases. To view all existing databases,
    execute the following statement:

        SELECT * FROM sys.databases;

-   In SQL Database, the **USE** statement is not supported for switching
    between databases. Instead, you need to establish a connection
    directly to the target database.

>[AZURE.NOTE] Many of the Transact-SQL statements that create or modify a database must be run within their own batch and cannot be grouped with other Transact-SQL statements. For more information, see the statement-specific information available from the links listed above.

## Create and manage logins

The **master** database keeps track of logins and which logins have
permission to create databases or other logins. Manage logins by
connecting to the **master** database with the server-level principal
login that you created when you set up your server. You can use the
**CREATE LOGIN**, **ALTER LOGIN**, or **DROP LOGIN** statements to
execute queries against the master database that will manage logins
across the entire server. For more information, see [Managing Databases and Logins in SQL Database](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/azure/ee336235.aspx). 


-   Use the **CREATE LOGIN** statement to create a new server-level
    login. For more information, see [CREATE LOGIN (SQL Database)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms189751.aspx). The statement below creates a new login
    called **login1**. Replace **password1** with the password of your
    choice.

        CREATE LOGIN login1 WITH password='password1';

-   Use the **CREATE USER** statement to grant database-level
    permissions. All logins must be created in the **master** database,
    but for a login to connect to a different database, you
    must grant it database-level permissions using the **CREATE USER**
    statement on that database. For more information, see [CREATE USER (SQL Database)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms173463.aspx). 

-   To give login1
    permissions to a database called **myTestDB**, complete the following
    steps:

 1.  To refresh Object Explorer to view the **myTestDB** database that you just created, right-click the server name in Object Explorer and then click **Refresh**.  

     If you closed the connection, you can reconnect by selecting **Connect Object Explorer** on the File menu.

 2. Right-click **myTestDB** database and select **New Query**.

    3.  Execute the following statement against the myTestDB database to
        create a database user named **login1User** that corresponds to
        the server-level login **login1**.

            CREATE USER login1User FROM LOGIN login1;

-   Use the **sp\_addrolemember** stored procedure to give the user
    account the appropriate level of permissions on the database. For
    more information, see [sp_addrolemember (Transact-SQL)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms187750.aspx). The statement below gives **login1User**
    read-only permissions to the database by adding **login1User** to
    the **db\_datareader** role.

        exec sp_addrolemember 'db_datareader', 'login1User';    

-   Use the **ALTER LOGIN** statement to modify an existing login, for
    example if you want to change the password for the login. For
    more information, see [ALTER LOGIN (SQL Database)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms189828.aspx). The **ALTER LOGIN** statement should be run against the **master** database. Switch back to the query window that is connected to that database. 

    The statement below modifies the **login1** login to reset the password.
    Replace **newPassword** with the password of your choice, and
    **oldPassword** with the current password for the login.

        ALTER LOGIN login1
        WITH PASSWORD = 'newPassword'
        OLD_PASSWORD = 'oldPassword';

-   Use **the DROP LOGIN** statement to delete an existing login.
    Deleting a login at the server level also deletes any associated
    database user accounts. For more information,
    see [DROP DATABASE (SQL Database)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms178613.aspx). The **DROP LOGIN**
    statement should be run against the **master** database. The
    statement below deletes the **login1** login.

        DROP LOGIN login1;

-   The master database has the **sys.sql\_logins** view that you can
    use to view logins. To view all existing logins, execute the
    following statement:

        SELECT * FROM sys.sql_logins;

## Monitor SQL Database using Dynamic Management Views</h2>

SQL Database supports several dynamic management views that you
can use to monitor an individual database. Below are a few examples of
the type of monitor data you can retrieve through these views. For
complete details and more usage examples, see [Monitoring SQL Database using Dynamic Management Views](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/azure/ff394114.aspx).

-   Querying a dynamic management view requires **VIEW DATABASE STATE**
    permissions. To grant the **VIEW DATABASE STATE** permission to a
    specific database user, connect to the database you want to manage
    with your server-level principle login and execute the following
    statement against the database:

        GRANT VIEW DATABASE STATE TO login1User;

-   Calculate database size using the **sys.dm\_db\_partition\_stats**
    view. The **sys.dm\_db\_partition\_stats** view returns page and
    row-count information for every partition in the database, which you
    can use to calculate the database size. The following query returns
    the size of your database in megabytes:

        SELECT SUM(reserved_page_count)*8.0/1024
        FROM sys.dm_db_partition_stats;   

-   Use the **sys.dm\_exec\_connections** and **sys.dm\_exec\_sessions**
    views to retrieve information about current user connections and
    internal tasks associated with the database. The following query
    returns information about the current connection:

        SELECT
            e.connection_id,
            s.session_id,
            s.login_name,
            s.last_request_end_time,
            s.cpu_time
        FROM
            sys.dm_exec_sessions s
            INNER JOIN sys.dm_exec_connections e
              ON s.session_id = e.session_id;

-   Use the **sys.dm\_exec\_query\_stats** view to retrieve aggregate
    performance statistics for cached query plans. The following query
    returns information about the top five queries ranked by average CPU
    time.

        SELECT TOP 5 query_stats.query_hash AS "Query Hash",
            SUM(query_stats.total_worker_time), SUM(query_stats.execution_count) AS "Avg CPU Time",
            MIN(query_stats.statement_text) AS "Statement Text"
        FROM
            (SELECT QS.*,
            SUBSTRING(ST.text, (QS.statement_start_offset/2) + 1,
            ((CASE statement_end_offset
                WHEN -1 THEN DATALENGTH(ST.text)
                ELSE QS.statement_end_offset END
                    - QS.statement_start_offset)/2) + 1) AS statement_text
             FROM sys.dm_exec_query_stats AS QS
             CROSS APPLY sys.dm_exec_sql_text(QS.sql_handle) as ST) as query_stats
        GROUP BY query_stats.query_hash
        ORDER BY 2 DESC;
 
 
