---
title: Generation 2 VMs in Azure DevTest Labs
description: Learn how to use Generation 2 virtual machines (VMs) in Azure DevTest Labs.
ms.topic: how-to
ms.author: anishtrakru
author: RoseHJM
ms.date: 01/20/2025
ms.custom: UpdateFrequency2
---

# Generation 2 VMs in Azure DevTest Labs

Azure DevTest Labs allows you to choose between Generation 1 and Generation 2 version of the same marketplace image while creating a VM using Azure DevTest Labs portal. Generation 2 Virtual Machines (VMs) support key capabilities that are not supported in Generation 1 VMs such as increased memory, Intel Software Guard Extensions (Intel SGX), and virtualized persistent memory (vPMEM). Generation 2 VMs might have improved boot and installation times.

For a VM instance to be a Generation 2 VM, it must use the specific Generation 2 base image and its VM size must support Generation 2. To learn more about Generation 2 VMs on Azure, the series of VMs that support Generation 2 images, and other limitations, please visit [Support for Generation 2 VMs on Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/generation-2).

This article explains how to use Generation 2 images in Azure DevTest Labs.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The enhanced support for **Generation 2 VMs** is currently in preview in Azure DevTest Labs. For more information about the preview status, see the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/). The document defines legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, in preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.

## Create lab virtual machines with a Generation 2 base image

### Prerequisite

You need at least [user](devtest-lab-add-devtest-user.md#devtest-labs-user) access to a lab in DevTest Labs. For more information about creating labs, see [Create a lab in the Azure portal](devtest-lab-create-lab.md).

### Create a VM using Generation 2 base image

1. In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the **Overview** page for the lab.

1. On the lab **Overview** page, select **Add**.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/devtest-lab-add-vm/portal-lab-add-vm.png" alt-text="Screenshot of lab overview page showing add button." lightbox="./media/devtest-lab-add-vm/portal-lab-add-vm.png":::

1. On the **Choose a base** page, select a Generation 2 image for the VM. The **Generation** column in the list of images displays whether it is a Generation 1 or Generation 2 image.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/devtest-lab-gen2-vm/dev-test-lab-gen-2-images.png" alt-text="Screenshot of list of available base images."  lightbox="./media/devtest-lab-gen2-vm/dev-test-lab-gen-2-images.png":::

1. On the **Basics Settings** tab of the **Create lab resource** screen, provide the following information:

   - **Virtual machine name**: Keep the autogenerated name, or enter another unique VM name.
   - **User name**: Keep the user name, or enter another user name to grant administrator privileges on the VM.
   - **Use a saved secret**: Select this checkbox to use a secret from Azure Key Vault instead of a password to access the VM. If you select this option, under **Secret**, select the secret to use from the dropdown list. For more information, see [Store secrets in a key vault](devtest-lab-store-secrets-in-key-vault.md). 
   - **Password**: If you don't choose to use a secret, enter a VM password between 8 and 123 characters long.
   - **Save as default password**: Select this checkbox to save the password in the Key Vault associated with the lab.
   - **Virtual machine size**: Keep the default value for the base, or select **Change Size** to select different sizes.
   - **Hibernation**: Select **Enabled** to enable hibernation for this virtual machine, or select **Disabled** to disable hibernation for this virtual machine. If you enable Hibernation, you also must select **Public IP** in the Advanced settings as Private and Shared IP are currently not supported if Hibernation is enabled.
   - **OS disk type**: Keep the default value for the base, or select a different option from the dropdown list.
   - **Artifacts**: This field shows the number of artifacts already configured for this VM base. Optionally, select **Add or Remove Artifacts** to select and configure artifacts to add to the VM.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/devtest-lab-add-vm/portal-lab-vm-basic-settings.png" alt-text="Screenshot of virtual machine basic settings page." lightbox="./media/devtest-lab-add-vm/portal-lab-vm-basic-settings.png":::

1. After you configure all settings, on the **Basic Settings** tab of the **Create lab resource** screen, select **Create** to deploy the VM.

During VM deployment, you can select the **Notifications** icon at the top of the screen to see progress. Creating a VM takes a while.

When the deployment is complete, if you kept yourself as VM owner, the VM appears under **My virtual machines** on the lab **Overview** page. To connect to the VM, select it from the list, and then select **Connect** on the VM's **Overview** page. If the VM is stopped, select **Start** first to start the VM.