---
author: rcdun
ms.author: rdunstan
ms.service: communications-gateway
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/04/2024
---

1. Work out the per-region domain names for connecting to Microsoft Teams Direct Routing. These domain names use the form `1r<region-number>.<base-domain-name>`. The base domain name is the **Domain** on your Azure Communications Gateway resource in the [Azure portal](https://azure.microsoft.com/).
1. Choose a DNS label to identify the test customer.
    - The label must be up to **nine** characters in length and can only contain letters, numbers, underscores, and dashes.
    - You must not use wildcard subdomains or subdomains with multiple labels.
    - For example, you could allocate the label `contoso`.
    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > The full customer subdomains (including the per-region domain names) must be a maximum of 48 characters. Microsoft Entra ID does not support domain names of more than 48 characters. For example, the customer subdomain `contoso1.1r1.a1b2c3d4e5f6g7h8.commsgw.azure.com` is 48 characters.
1. Use this label to create a _customer subdomain_ of each per-region domain name for your Azure Communications Gateway.
1. Make a note of the label you choose and the corresponding customer subdomains.

For example:
- Your base domain name might be `<deployment-id>.commsgw.azure.com`, where `<deployment-id>` is autogenerated and unique to the deployment.
- Your per-region domain names are therefore:
    - `1r1.<deployment-id>.commsgw.azure.com`
    - `1r2.<deployment-id>.commsgw.azure.com`
- If you allocate the label `contoso`, this label combined with the per-region domain names creates the following customer subdomains for your customer:
    - `contoso.1r1.<deployment-id>.commsgw.azure.com`
    - `contoso.1r2.<deployment-id>.commsgw.azure.com`

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The per-region domain names for connecting to Microsoft Teams Direct Routing are different to the per-region domain names for connecting to your network.